# Page 229

**Document Title**: Strategic Brand Management: Building, Measuring, and Managing Brand Equity
**Author**: Kevin Lane Keller
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Strategic_Brand_Management.pdf
**Page Number**: 229/591
**Processing Time**: 2026-02-06T16:53:10.258977

---

Many readers only glance at the most visible elements of a print ad, making it critical that an ad communicate clearly, directly, and consistently in the ad illustration and headline. Finally, many consumers can easily overlook the brand name if it is not readily apparent. We can sum the creative guidelines for print ads in three simple criteria: clarity, consistency, and branding.

**Direct Response.** In contrast to advertising in traditional broadcast and print media, which typically communicates to consumers in a nonspecific and nondirective manner, *direct response* uses mail, telephone, Internet, and other contact tools to communicate with or solicit a response from specific customers and prospects. Direct response can take many forms and is not restricted to solicitations by mail, telephone, or even within traditional broadcast and print media.

Direct mail still remains popular, with U.S. businesses generating $571 billion in sales from direct mail in 2010.<sup>23</sup> Marketers are exploring other options, though. One increasingly popular means of direct marketing is infomercials, formally known as direct response TV marketing.<sup>24</sup> In a marketing sense, infomercials attempt to combine the sell of commercials with the draw of educational information and entertainment. We can therefore think of them as a cross between a sales call and a television ad. According to Infomercial DRTV, a trade Web site, infomercials are typically 28 minutes and 30 seconds long with an average cost in the $150,000–250,000 range (although production can cost as little as $75,000 and as much as $500,000).<sup>25</sup>

Starting with infomercials, although now moving online and also employing social media, Guthy-Renker enjoys about $800 million in revenue from its Proactiv acne treatment, endorsed by celebrities Justin Bieber, Jennifer Love-Hewitt, Katy Perry, Avril Lavigne, and Jenna Fischer. Many infomercial products are now showing up in stores carrying little “As Seen on TV” signs. Telebrands has sold 35 million of the PedEgg used to smooth rough feet and generates 90 percent of sales of all its products from major retailers such as CVS and Target. By 2014, direct-response TV marketing is expected to drive sales of $174 billion—a 30% increase from 2010 levels.<sup>26</sup>

**Guidelines.** The steady growth of direct marketing in recent years is a function of technological advances like the ease of setting up toll-free numbers and Web sites; changes in consumer behavior, such as the increased demand for convenience; and the needs of marketers, who want to avoid wasteful communications to nontarget customers or customer groups. The advantage of direct response is that it makes it easier for marketers to establish relationships with consumers.

Direct communications through electronic or physical newsletters, catalogs, and so forth allow marketers to explain new developments with their brands to consumers on an ongoing basis as well as allow consumers to provide feedback to marketers about their likes and dislikes and specific needs and wants. By learning more about customers, marketers can fine-tune marketing programs to offer the right products to the right customers at the right time. In fact, direct marketing is often seen as a key component of relationship marketing—an important marketing trend we reviewed in Chapter 5. Some direct marketers employ what they call **precision marketing**—combining data analytics with strategic messages and compelling colors and designs in their communications.<sup>27</sup>

As the name suggests, the goal of direct response is to elicit some type of behavior from consumers; given that, it is easy to measure the effects of direct marketing efforts—people either respond or they do not. The disadvantages to direct response, however, are intrusiveness and clutter. To implement an effective direct marketing program, marketers need the three critical ingredients of (1) developing an up-to-date and informative list of current and potential future customers, (2) putting forth the right offer in the right manner, and (3) tracking the effectiveness of the marketing program. To improve the effectiveness of direct marketing programs, many marketers are embracing database marketing, as highlighted by The Science of Branding 6-1.

**Place.** The last category of advertising is also often called “nontraditional,” “alternative,” or “support” advertising, because it has arisen in recent years as a means to complement more traditional advertising media. *Place advertising*, also called *out-of-home advertising*, is a Formally, *database marketing* has been defined as “managing a computerized relational database, in real time, of comprehensive, up-to-date, relevant data on customers, inquiries, prospects and suspects, to identify our most responsive customers for the purpose of developing a high quality, long-standing relationship of repeat business by developing predictive models which enable us to send desired messages at the right time in the right form to the right people—all with the result of pleasing our customers, increasing our response rate per marketing dollar, lowering our cost per order, building our business, and increasing our profits.”
