# Page 489

**Document Title**: Strategic Brand Management: Building, Measuring, and Managing Brand Equity
**Author**: Kevin Lane Keller
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Strategic_Brand_Management.pdf
**Page Number**: 489/591
**Processing Time**: 2026-02-06T16:53:10.294843

---

> Fusion Power razors. Gillette had spent $1.2 billion on R&D since introducing the Mach3 and then spent more than $1 billion to market the product to the world’s 3.2 billion males. The payoff? A four-pack of Fusion cartridges cost double the Mach3’s original price. The Fusion ProGlide, Gillette’s most expensive razor ever, followed a few years later. As Chapter 5 noted, the new sub-brand was successfully launched with a strong marketing campaign.  
> As its brand history clearly shows, much of Gillette’s success results from its having relentlessly innovated and stayed relevant. The company has also carefully branded new products. Major introductions receive totally new sub-brand names (Sensor, Mach3, and Fusion), while minor improvements are given modifiers (Sensor Excel, Mach3 Turbo, and Fusion ProGlide).

> **Sources:** Linda Grant, “Gillette Knows Shaving—and How to Turn Out Hot New Products,” *Fortune*, 14 October 1996, 207–210; William C. Symonds, “Gillette’s Edge,” *BusinessWeek*, 19 January 1998; Chris Reidy, “The Unveiling of a New Venus,” *Boston Globe*, 3 November 2000; Naomi Aoki, “Gillette Hopes to Create a Buzz with Vibrating Women’s Razor,” *Boston Globe*, 17 December 2004; A.G. Lafley, “It Was a No-Brainer,” *Fortune*, 21 February 2005, 96; Editorial, “Gillette Spends Smart on Fusion,” *Advertising Age*, 26 September 2005, 24; “Gillette Launches New Global Brand Marketing Campaign,” *PRNewswire*, 1 July 2009; Jack Neff, “Gillette Fusion ProGlide,” *Advertising Age*, 15 November 2010.

MTV is a brand that has worked hard to stay relevant with young consumers.

## MTV

Over the course of 30-plus years, MTV has built a powerful youth-oriented brand that spans the globe. When the all-music channel debuted in 1981, few dreamed it would attain such a prominent place in popular culture. Few also imagined that MTV would attract as many international viewers as it did—it is seen today in 592 million households in 161 countries and 33 languages. Domestically and abroad, MTV developed programming and content that consistently resonated with viewers over the years. It attracted loyal U.S. followers in the early 1980s and in each of its international broadcast regions in the 1990s and early 2000s. The channel built more than just its own brand equity. Throughout the years, MTV served as a star-making vehicle for pop artists and on-air talent. Experts credited the channel with changing the course of music and television, and in some cases even with having an impact upon sociopolitical events, including the collapse of the Eastern Bloc communist regime, the 2004 and 2008 Presidential elections, and the aftermath of September 11 and Hurricane Katrina.

MTV’s rise to cultural prominence was not achieved without difficulty. The channel endured a lengthy stretch of flat U.S. ratings in the mid-1990s as music tastes shifted and it lost touch with its core audience. However, MTV managed successfully to reinvent itself and establish a following from a new core audience by embracing “long-form” programming, starting with the run-away success of *Real World* and *Road Rules*. The channel even dropped the “music television” tagline from its logo in early 2010 in recognition of its new focus. Company president Van Toffler said at the time that MTV had evolved away from playing as many music videos as possible to including more “genre shows” such as *Jersey Shore*, *Teen Mom*, and *16 and Pregnant*. The shift in programming contributed to MTV’s highest annual increase in ratings since 1999 and the explosion of teen pop. Toffler noted: “We really evolved in youth and pop culture and music, and we just speak to purely the 12–34 audience.”

The first decade of the new century had brought a new era of growth for MTV. In 1999, Viacom formed MTV Networks to offer its advertisers a full spectrum of demographic groups. MTV Networks included sister channels such as VH1, Nickelodeon, Nick at Nite, Comedy Central, and Spike TV. MTV also had expanded globally during this time—over 150 locally programmed and operated MTV channels now exist—to become the largest global media brand in the world. With the youngest member of Generation X turning 33 in 2012, however, MTV has moved on and now has set its sights squarely on the millennial generation, transforming programming and marketing in the process. Social media, original short-form programming, and a slew of digital content now play a key role in MTV’s plans to engage this younger generation. Through the years, one thing has always been true: MTV has stayed focused on its central challenge of remaining current and relevant within the fickle world of popular culture.<sup>10</sup> MTV evolved from a music video station hosted by VJs in the 1980s (on the top) to a long-form programming network focusing on youth culture as with its popular reality series like *Jersey Shore* (on the bottom).
