# Page 458

**Document Title**: Strategic Brand Management: Building, Measuring, and Managing Brand Equity
**Author**: Kevin Lane Keller
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Strategic_Brand_Management.pdf
**Page Number**: 458/591
**Processing Time**: 2026-02-06T16:53:10.290533

---

Reddy, Holak, and Bhat studied the determinants of line extension success using data on 75 line extensions of 34 cigarette brands over a 20-year period.[53] Their major findings indicate that:

* Line extensions of strong brands are more successful than extensions of weak brands.
* Line extensions of symbolic brands enjoy greater market success than those of less symbolic brands.
* Line extensions that receive strong advertising and promotional support are more successful than those extensions that receive meager support.
* Line extensions entering earlier into a product subcategory are more successful than extensions entering later, but only if they are extensions of strong brands.
* Firm size and marketing competencies also play a part in an extension’s success.
* Earlier line extensions have helped in the market expansion of the parent brand.
* Incremental sales generated by line extensions may more than compensate for the loss in sales due to cannibalization.

Despite the pitfalls of line extensions and the many considerations necessary to properly manage extensions, the allure of line extensions for companies remains strong, primarily due to the cost and risk incurred in launching an entirely new brand. One report showed that line extensions take half as long to develop, cost far less to market, and enjoy twice the success rate of major new brand launches.[54]

### Design Marketing Programs to Launch Extension

Too often companies use extensions as a shortcut means of introducing a new product and pay insufficient attention to developing a branding and marketing strategy that will maximize the equity of the brand extension as well as enhance the equity of the parent brand. As is the case with a new brand, building brand equity for a brand extension requires choosing brand elements, designing the optimal marketing program to launch the extension, and leveraging secondary associations.

#### Choosing Brand Elements.

By definition, brand extensions retain one or more elements from an existing brand. They do not have to leverage only the brand name but can use other brand elements too. For example, Heinz and Campbell Soup have implemented package designs that distinguish different line extensions or brand types but reveal their common origin at the same time.[55]

Sometimes packaging is such a critical component of brand equity that it is hard to imagine an extension without it. Brand managers are in a real dilemma in such cases, because if they choose the same type of packaging, they run the risk that the extension will not be well distinguished. If they use different packaging, they may leave a key source of brand equity behind.

A brand extension can retain or modify one or more brand elements from the parent brand as well as adopt its own brand elements. In creating new brand elements for an extension, marketers should follow the same guidelines of memorability, meaningfulness, likeability, protectability, adaptability, and transferability that we described in Chapter 4 for the development of any brand.

New brand elements are often necessary to help distinguish the brand extension and build awareness and image. As Chapter 11 noted, the relative prominence of existing parent brand elements and new extension brand elements will dictate the strength of transfer from the parent brand to the extension, as well as the feedback from the extension to the parent brand.

#### Designing Optimal Marketing Program.

The marketing program for a brand extension must consider the same guidelines in building brand equity that we described in Chapters 5 and 6. Consumer perceptions of value must guide pricing decisions, distribution strategies must blend push and pull considerations, and the firm must integrate marketing communications by mixing and matching communication options.

When it comes to positioning, the less similar the extension is to the parent brand, the more important it typically is to establish necessary and competitive points-of-parity. The points-of-difference for a category extension in many cases directly follow from the points-of-difference for the parent brand, and consumers readily perceive them. Thus, when Nivea extended into Cannibalization can be a major problem for brands like Budweiser that have many different but related sub-brands.
