# Page 531

**Document Title**: Strategic Brand Management: Building, Measuring, and Managing Brand Equity
**Author**: Kevin Lane Keller
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Strategic_Brand_Management.pdf
**Page Number**: 531/591
**Processing Time**: 2026-02-06T16:53:10.300179

---

# SNUGGLE
To counteract negative quality inferences associated with low price, Unilever emphasized softness as the product’s key point-of-difference, naming it *Kuschelweich*, which means “enfolded in softness,” and displaying a teddy bear on the package. When the product was launched in France, Unilever kept the brand positioning of economy and softness but changed the name to *Cajoline*, meaning softness, and gave the teddy bear center stage in advertising. Success in France led to global expansion, and in each case the brand name was changed to connote softness in the local language while the advertising featuring the teddy bear remained virtually identical across global markets. By the 1990s, Unilever was marketing the fabric softener around the globe with over a dozen brand names, including *Coccolino* in Italy and *Mimosin* in Spain, all with the same product positioning and advertising support. More important, the fabric softener was generally the number-one or number-two brand in each market. Although Snuggle is still a strong market leader, Unilever sold the brand to Sun Products in 2008 to streamline its product portfolio.[^51]

The success of Snuggle reflects the importance of understanding similarities and differences in the branding landscape. Although marketers typically strive to keep the same brand name across markets, in this case, the need for a common name was reduced since people generally don’t buy fabric softener away from home. On the other hand, a common consumer desire for softness that transcended country boundaries was effectively communicated by a teddy bear as the main character in a global ad campaign.

## 2. Don’t Take Shortcuts in Brand Building
In terms of building global customer-based brand equity, many of the basic tactics we discussed in Part II of the text still apply. In particular, we must create brand awareness and a positive brand image in each country in which the brand is sold. The means may differ from country to country, or the actual sources of brand equity themselves may vary. Nevertheless, it is critically important to have sufficient levels of brand awareness and strong, favorable, and unique brand associations to provide sources of brand equity in each country. VW has struggled to gain a strong foothold in the U.S. market because, unlike its Asian import competitors, it has been less willing to modify its designs for U.S. buyers. Although it has ambitious goals for global auto supremacy, one industry analyst noted, “They need to spend much more time understanding the U.S. consumer.”[^52]

Building a brand in new markets must be done from the bottom up. Strategically, that means concentrating on building awareness first, before the brand image. Tactically, or operationally, it means determining how to best create sources of brand equity in new markets. Distribution, communication, and pricing strategies may not be appropriate in any two markets even if the same overall brand image is desired in both. If the brand is at an earlier stage of development, rather than alter it or the advertising to conform to local tastes, marketers will try to influence local behavior to fit the established uses of the brand. Consumer education then accompanies brand development efforts.

# KELLOGG
When Kellogg first introduced its corn flakes into the Brazilian market in 1962, cereal was eaten as a dry snack—the way U.S. consumers eat potato chips—because many Brazilians did not eat breakfast at all. As a result, the ads there centered on the family and breakfast table—much more so than in the United States. As in other Latin American countries where big breakfasts have not been part of the meal tradition, Kellogg’s task was to inform consumers of the “proper” way to eat cereal with cold milk in the morning. Similarly, Kellogg had to educate French consumers that corn flakes were meant to be eaten with cold instead of warm milk. Initial advertising showed milk being poured from transparent glass pitchers used for cold milk, rather than opaque porcelain jugs used for warm milk. A challenge to Kellogg in increasing the relatively low per capita consumption of ready-to-eat breakfast cereals in Asia was the low consumption of milk products and the positive distaste with which drinking milk was held in many Asian countries. Because cereal consumption and habits vary widely across countries, Kellogg learned to build the brand from the bottom up in each market.[^53] Kellogg’s had to educate consumers about cereals in many international markets where breakfast habits were very different.
