# Page 430

**Document Title**: Strategic Brand Management: Building, Measuring, and Managing Brand Equity
**Author**: Kevin Lane Keller
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Strategic_Brand_Management.pdf
**Page Number**: 430/591
**Processing Time**: 2026-02-06T16:53:10.287112

---

57. Nathan Hodge, “Company Once Known as Blackwater Ditches Xe for Yet Another New Name,” *Wall Street Journal*, 12 December 2011.  
58. Dottie Enrico, “Companies Play Name-Change Game,” *USA Today*, 28 December 1994, 4B.  
59. Associated Press, “Protesters Gather as Chicago’s Landmark Marshall Fields Store Is Replaced By Macy’s,” 9 September 2006; Sandra M. Jones, “A Year Later, Field’s Followers Still Protesting, *Chicago Tribune*, 8 September 2007. For some discussion of the broader success of Macy’s strategy, see Cotton Timberlake, “With Stores Nationwide, Macy’s Goes Local,” *Bloomberg BusinessWeek*, 4 October 2011.  
60. Beth Snyder Bulik, “O, No! Overstock Backs Off O.co Name Change,” *Advertising Age*, 14 November 2011; Matt Brownell, “Why ‘O.co’ Didn’t Work for Overstock.com,” www.mainstreet.com, 16 November 2011; George Anderson, “O.co Is out in Overstock Name Change Part Two,” www.retailwire.com, 16 November 2011.  
61. Mike Verdin, “Consignia: Nine Letters That Spelled Fiasco,” *BBC News*, 31 May 2002.  
62. Tania Mason, “PWC Defends Monday as IBM Removes Name,” *Marketing*, 8 August 2002.  
63. “Allegis: A $7 Million Name Is Grounded,” *San Francisco Examiner*, 16 June 1987, C9.  
64. P. Rajan Varadarajan and Anil Menon, “Cause-Related Marketing: A Coalignment of Marketing Strategy and Corporate Philanthropy,” *Journal of Marketing* 52 (July 1988): 58–74.  
65. Sankar Sen and C. B. Bhattacharya, “Does Doing Good Always Lead to Doing Better? Consumer Reactions to Corporate Social Responsibility,” *Journal of Marketing Research* 38 (May 2001): 225–243; Xueming Luo and C. B. Bhattacharya, “The Debate over Doing Good: Corporate Social Performance, Strategic Marketing Levers, and Firm-Idiosyncratic Risk,” *Journal of Marketing* 73 (November 2009): 198–213.  
66. “Global Consumers Voice Demand for Greater Corporate Responsibility,” www.coneinc.com, 4 October 2011; Paul N. Bloom, Steve Hoeffler, Kevin Lane Keller, and Carlos E. Basurto Meza, “How Social-Cause Marketing Affects Consumer Perceptions,” *MIT Sloan Management Review* 47, no. 2 (2006): 49–55.  
67. Paul N. Bloom, Steve Hoeffler, Kevin Lane Keller, and Carlos E. Basurto, “How Social-Cause Marketing Affects Consumer Perceptions,” *MIT Sloan Management Review* (Winter 2006): 49–55; Carolyn J. Simmons and Karen L. Becker-Olsen, “Achieving Marketing Objectives through Social Sponsorships,” *Journal of Marketing* 70 (October 2006): 154–169; Guido Berens, Cees B. M. van Riel, and Gerrit H. van Bruggen, “Corporate Associations and Consumer Product Responses: The Moderating Role of Corporate Brand Dominance,” *Journal of Marketing* 69 (July 2005): 35–48; Donald R. Lichtenstein, Minette E. Drumwright, and Bridgette M. Braig, “The Effect of Social Responsibility on Customer Donations to Corporate-Supported Nonprofits,” *Journal of Marketing* 68 (October 2004): 16–32; Stephen Hoeffler and Kevin Lane Keller, “Building Brand Equity through Corporate Societal Marketing,” *Journal of Public Policy and Marketing* 21, no. 1 (Spring 2002): 78–89.  
68. Note that enhanced credibility may depend on the type of brand involved; some proactive research shows how luxury brands can actually be hurt by CSR programs. See Carlos J. Torelli, Alokparna Basu Monga, and Andrew M. Kaikati, “Doing Poorly by Doing Good: Corporate Social Responsibility,” *Journal of Consumer Research* (February 2012): 948–963.  
69. Sankar Sen, Shuili Du, and C. B. Bhattacharya, “Building Relationships through Corporate Social Responsibility,” in *Handbook of Brand Relationships*, eds. Joseph Priester, Deborah MacInnis, and C.W. Park (New York: M. E. Sharp, 2009): 195–211.  
70. www.rhmc.org, accessed January 22, 2012.  
71. C.B. Bhattacharya, Sankar Sen, and Daniel Korschun, “Using Corporate Social Responsibility to Win the War for Talent,” *MIT Sloan Management Review* 49 (January 2008): 37–44; Xueming Luo and C. B. Bhattacharya, “Corporate Social Responsibility, Customer Satisfaction, and Market Value,” *Journal of Marketing* 70 (October 2006): 1–18; Pat Auger, Paul Burke, Timothy Devinney, and Jordan J. Louviere, “What Will Consumers Pay for Social Product Features?” *Journal of Business Ethics* 42 (February 2003): 281–304; Dennis B. Arnett, Steve D. German, and Shelby D. Hunt, “The Identity Salience Model of Relationship Marketing Success: The Case of Nonprofit Marketing,” *Journal of Marketing* 67 (April 2003): 89–105; C. B. Bhattacharya and Sankar Sen, “Consumer-Company Identification: A Framework for Understanding Consumers’ Relationships with Companies,” *Journal of Marketing* 67 (April 2003): 76–88; Sankar Sen and C. B. Bhattacharya, “Does Doing Good Always Lead to Doing Better? Consumer Reactions to Corporate Social Responsibility,” *Journal of Marketing Research* 38 (May 2001): 225–244.  
72. Xiaoli Nan and Kwangjun Heo, “Consumer Responses to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Initiatives: Examining the Role of Brand-Cause Fit in Cause-Related Marketing,” *Journal of Advertising* 36 (Summer 2007): 63–74.  
73. Hamish Pringle and Marjorie Thompson, *Brand Spirit: How Cause Related Marketing Builds Brands* (Chichester, NY: Wiley, 1999); www.avonfoundation.org/breast-cancer-crusade, accessed February 27, 2012; David Hessekiel, “The Most Influential Cause-Marketing Programs of All Time,” www.bestcm.posterous.com, accessed February 27, 2012.  
74. David Hessekiel, “The Most Influential Cause-Marketing Programs of All Time,” www.bestcm.posterous.com; www.yoplait.com; For a provocative discussion of some of the broader issues about cause marketing for breast cancer, see Gayle A. Sulik, *Pink Ribbon Blues: How Breast Cancer Culture Undermines Women’s Health* (New York: Oxford University Press, 2011).  
75. David Kiron, Nina Kruschwitz, Knut Haanaes, Martin Reeves, and Ingrid von Streng Velken, “Sustainability Nears a Tipping Point,” *MIT Sloan Management Review* (Winter 2012): 69–74.

