# Page 425

**Document Title**: Strategic Brand Management: Building, Measuring, and Managing Brand Equity
**Author**: Kevin Lane Keller
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Strategic_Brand_Management.pdf
**Page Number**: 425/591
**Processing Time**: 2026-02-06T16:53:10.286248

---

At the same time, repeated or prominent exposure to the brand as a result of the CSM program can facilitate brand recognition.
* **Enhancing brand image:** Because most CSM programs do not include much product-related information, we would not expect them to have much impact on more functional, performance-related considerations. On the other hand, we can link two types of abstract or imagery-related associations to a brand via CSM: user profiles—CSM may allow consumers to develop a positive image of brand users to which they also may aspire in terms of being kind, generous, and doing good things; and personality and values—CSM could clearly bolster the sincerity dimension of a brand’s personality such that consumers would think of the people behind the brand as caring and genuine.
* **Establishing brand credibility:** CSM could affect all three dimensions of credibility, because consumers may think of a firm willing to invest in CSM as caring more about customers and being more dependable than other firms, at least in a broad sense, as well as being likable for “doing the right things.”<sup>68</sup> Whirlpool generated much goodwill with its “More Than Houses” cause program with Habitat for Humanity, in which it donated a range and refrigerator for each new home built.
* **Evoking brand feelings:** Two categories of brand feelings that seem particularly applicable to CSM are social approval and self-respect. In other words, CSM may help consumers justify their self-worth to others or to themselves. CSM programs may need to provide consumers with external symbols to explicitly advertise or signal their affiliation to others—for example, bumper stickers, ribbons, buttons, and T-shirts. They can also give people the notion that they are doing the right thing and should feel good about themselves for having done so. External symbols in this case may not be as important as the creation of “moments of internal reflection” during which consumers are able to experience these feelings. Communications that reinforce the positive outcomes associated with the cause program—and how consumer involvement contributed to that success—could help trigger these types of experiences. To highlight the consumer contribution, it may be necessary to recommend certain actions or outcomes such as having consumers donate a certain percentage of income or a designated amount.
* **Creating a sense of brand community:** CSM and a well-chosen cause can serve as a rallying point for brand users and a means for them to connect to or share experiences with other consumers or employees of the company itself.<sup>69</sup> One place where communities of like-minded users exist is online. Marketers may be able to tap into the many close-knit online groups that have sprung up around cause-related issues (for instance, medical concerns such as Alzheimer’s disease, cancer, and autism). The brand might even serve as the focal point or ally for these online efforts to be seen in a more positive light.
* **Eliciting brand engagement:** Participating in a cause-related activity as part of a CSM program for a brand is certainly one means of eliciting active engagement. As part of any of these activities, customers themselves may become brand evangelists and ambassadors and help communicate about the brand and strengthen the brand ties of others. A CSM program of “strategic volunteerism,” whereby corporate personnel volunteer their time to help administer the nonprofit program, could actively engage consumers with both the cause and the brand.

> Perhaps the most important benefit of cause-related marketing is that by humanizing the firm, it may help consumers develop a strong, unique bond with the firm that transcends normal marketplace transactions. A striking success story is McDonald’s, whose franchises have long been required to stay close to their local communities. Ronald McDonald House Charities provides comfort and care to sick children and their families by supporting over 300 Ronald McDonald Houses and 45 Ronald McDonald Care Mobiles in communities around the world and by making grants to other not-for-profit organizations whose programs help children in need. Ronald McDonald Houses effectively leverage the company’s Ronald McDonald character and its identification with children to concretely symbolize the firm’s “do-good” efforts. This well-branded cause program enhances McDonald’s reputation as caring and concerned for customers.<sup>70</sup>

## Designing Cause-Marketing Programs

Cause marketing comes in many forms related to education, health, the environment, the arts, and so on. Some firms have used cause marketing very strategically to gain a marketing advantage.<sup>71</sup> Toyota has run corporate advertising for years—most recently its “Moving Forward” campaign—showing it has roots in local U.S. communities. For Toyota, this campaign may go beyond cause marketing to become a means to help create a vital point-of-parity with respect to domestic car companies on “country of origin.”

A danger is that the promotional efforts behind a cause-marketing program could backfire if cynical consumers question the link between the product and the cause and see the firm as self-serving and exploitive as a result. To realize brand equity benefits, firms must brand their cause-marketing efforts in the right manner. In particular, consumers must be able to make some kind of connection from the cause to the brand.<sup>72</sup>

The hope is that cause marketing strikes a chord with consumers and employees, improving the image of the company and energizing these constituents to act. With near-parity products, some marketers feel that a strongly held point-of-difference on the basis of community involvement and concern may in some cases be the best way—and perhaps the only way—to uniquely position a product. Two highly successful cause programs are associated with breast cancer:

* **The Avon Breast Cancer Crusade:** Founded in 1993, the Avon Breast Cancer Crusade is a U.S. initiative of Avon Products, Inc. Its mission has been to provide women, particularly those who are medically underserved, with direct access to breast cancer education and early-detection screening services such as mammograms and clinical breast exams. In the United States, Avon is the largest corporate supporter of the breast cancer cause, generating some $740 million in the first 19 years of its existence and donating it around the world. The Crusade raises funds to accomplish this mission in two ways: through the sale of special fund-raising (pink ribbon) products by Avon’s nearly 6.5 million independent sales representatives worldwide, and through fund-raising walks. In the United States, the Avon Walk for Breast Cancer 2-Days, a series of two-day, 30-mile fund-raising walks in major cities nationwide, attracts thousands of participants. The Crusade has linked more than 15 million women to early-detection programs and provided $25 million for 41 research projects.<sup>73</sup>
* **Yoplait Save Lids to Save Lives:** Yoplait yogurt is the biggest-selling yogurt in the United States and accounted for $1.1 billion of parent company General Mills’s $11.2 billion in General Mills’ “Save Lids to Save Lives” cause campaign has been a win-win success for raising funds for breast cancer research and for building the Yoplait brand.
