# Page 133

**Document Title**: Strategic Brand Management: Building, Measuring, and Managing Brand Equity
**Author**: Kevin Lane Keller
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Strategic_Brand_Management.pdf
**Page Number**: 133/591
**Processing Time**: 2026-02-06T16:53:10.246884

---

Each of the three multipliers can increase or decrease market value as it moves from stage to stage. In other words, value creation also means ensuring that value transfers from stage to stage. Unfortunately, many factors that can inhibit value creation may be largely out of the marketer’s hands, like investors’ industry sentiment. Recognizing the uncontrollable nature of these factors is important to help put in perspective the relative success or failure of a marketing program to create brand value. Just as sports coaches cannot be held accountable for unforeseen circumstances such as injuries to key players and financial constraints that make it difficult to attract top talent, so marketers cannot necessarily be held accountable for certain market forces and dynamics.

Third, as we’ll outline in Chapters 8–10, the brand value chain provides a detailed road map for tracking value creation that can make marketing research and intelligence efforts easier. Each of the stages and multipliers has a set of measures by which we can assess it. In general, there are three main sources of information, and each taps into one value stage and one multiplier. The first stage, the marketing program investment, is straightforward and can come from the marketing plan and budget. We can assess both customer mind-set and the program quality multiplier with quantitative and qualitative customer research. Market performance and the marketplace conditions multiplier appear in market scans and internal accounting records. Finally, we can estimate shareholder value and the investor sentiment multiplier through investor analysis and interviews.

Modifications to the brand value chain can expand its relevance and applicability. First, there are a number of feedback loops. For example, stock prices can have an important effect on employee morale and motivation. Second, in some cases, the value creation may not occur sequentially. For example, stock analysts may react to an ad campaign for the brand—either personally or in recognition of public acceptance—and factor those reactions directly into their investment assessments. Third, some marketing activities may have only very diffuse effects that manifest over the long term. For example, cause-related or social responsibility marketing activity might affect customer or investor sentiment slowly over time. Fourth, both the mean and the variance of some brand value chain measures could matter. For example, a niche brand may receive very high marks but only across a very narrow range of customers.

# REVIEW

Brand planning is aided by three interlocking models that can both qualitatively guide and interpret possible marketing actions as well as quantitatively measure marketing effects (see Figure 3-6). Chapter 2 introduced the brand positioning model. This chapter described in detail the second and third brand planning tools—the brand resonance and brand value chain models.

The brand resonance model lists a series of steps for building a strong brand: (1) establishing the proper brand identity, (2) creating the appropriate brand meaning, (3) eliciting the right brand responses, and (4) forging appropriate brand relationships with customers. Specifically, according to this model, building a strong brand requires establishing breadth and depth of brand awareness; creating strong, favorable, and unique brand associations; eliciting positive, accessible brand responses; and forging intense, active brand relationships. Achieving these four steps, in turn, means establishing six brand building blocks: brand salience, brand performance, brand imagery, brand judgments, brand feelings, and brand resonance.

The strongest brands excel on all six of these dimensions and thus fully execute all four steps of building a brand. In the brand resonance model, the most valuable brand building block, brand resonance, occurs when all the other core brand values are completely “in sync” with respect to customers’ needs, wants, and desires. In other words, brand resonance reflects a completely harmonious relationship between customers and the brand. With true brand resonance, customers have a high degree of loyalty marked by a close relationship with the brand and actively seek means to interact with the brand and share their experiences with others. Firms that are able to achieve resonance and affinity with their customers should reap a host of valuable benefits, such as greater price premiums and more efficient and effective marketing programs.

Thus, the basic premise of the brand resonance model is that the true measure of the strength of a brand depends on how consumers think, feel, and act with respect to that brand. Achieving brand resonance requires eliciting the proper cognitive appraisals and emotional reactions to the brand from customers. That, in turn, necessitates establishing brand identity **FIGURE 3-6**
