# Page 542

**Document Title**: Strategic Brand Management: Building, Measuring, and Managing Brand Equity
**Author**: Kevin Lane Keller
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Strategic_Brand_Management.pdf
**Page Number**: 542/591
**Processing Time**: 2026-02-06T16:53:10.302029

---

# DISCUSSION QUESTIONS

1. Pick a brand marketed in more than one country. Assess the extent to which the brand is marketed on a standardized versus customized basis.  
2. How aware are you of the country of origin of different products you own? For which products do you care about the country of origin? Why? For those imported brands that you view positively, find out and critique how they are marketed in their home country.  
3. Pick a product category. Consider the strategies of market leaders in different countries. How are they the same and how are they different?  
4. Pick a product category. How are different leading brands targeting different demographic market segments?  
5. Contrast Coca-Cola’s and McDonald’s global branding strategies. How are they similar and how are they different? Why are they so well respected?  

----

## BRAND FOCUS 14.0

### China Global Brand Ambitions

#### Growth at Home

China, the world’s most populous country with more than 1.3 billion people, was essentially closed to the West during the period between the Communist overthrow of the government in 1949 until gradual economic reforms began in 1978, culminating with China’s admission into the World Trade Organization in 2001. Since reforms began, China has industrialized at a remarkable rate and is now the world’s second-largest economy, a manufacturing giant boasting a record $100 billion trade surplus in 2011.<sup>81</sup>

The statistics of China’s production are staggering: it is the world’s largest garment exporter by a large margin, it is also the world’s largest manufacturer of consumer electronics, and it manufactures 80 percent of the clocks sold in the world, 50 percent of all cameras, and 60 percent of all bicycles. The primary reason for China’s manufacturing prowess is its remarkably cheap labor pool. Manufacturing wages in southern China average 60 cents an hour, 95 percent lower than U.S. averages.<sup>82</sup> China’s economic boom has created a wealth of opportunity for the country’s citizens and companies, as well as an attractive consumer base for foreign companies seeking growth. The following sections will illustrate the successes and difficulties that characterize modern China.

#### A Growing Consumer Class

China’s rise to a global economic superpower enriched many of its citizens; more than a million are now millionaires.<sup>83</sup> With this newfound wealth came an interest in consuming conspicuously, which precipitated a windfall for foreign luxury-goods manufacturers. With a rapidly expanding middle class, China went from consuming 1 percent of the world’s luxury goods in 2001 to a projected 20 percent in 2015, making the country the world’s largest luxury market. Roughly half these luxuries are being bought on the mainland, the other half abroad.<sup>84</sup> China’s vast population of only children—called “Little Emperors” for the way many are doted on by their parents—are expected to drive demand for luxury goods for years to come.<sup>85</sup>

Luxury brands have flocked to China to try to cash in. L’Oréal purchased the country’s most popular cosmetics brand, Yue Sai, and bought bargain brand Mininurse, with an enviable distribution network of more than 250,000 small stores. L’Oréal also invested in a 32,000-square-foot laboratory in Pudong to develop products specific to the Chinese market and containing local ingredients such as ginkgo leaf and ginseng. One of the company’s big challenges in China was educating consumers about the benefits of different cosmetic products. “In other countries, women learn how to use cosmetics from the mom,” said Paolo Gasparrini, president of L’Oréal China. “That’s not the case in China. We have to substitute [for the] mom.” Still, L’Oréal experienced double-digit sales increases for 11 years, approaching $1.6 billion in sales in 2011.<sup>86</sup>

Despite the fortunate wealthy few, vast numbers of urban and especially rural poor have been left behind. Rural workers earn half the average salary of urban factory workers, often not enough to send their children to school. Consequently, rural Chinese are migrating to cities in search of better-paying jobs, increasing urban congestion and unemployment rates. By 2010, an estimated 50 percent of the population lived in cities, aggravating these problems.<sup>87</sup> Despite the concerns generated by this wealth polarization, China’s consumer class still harbors enough purchasing power to attract foreign brands, as the next section describes.

#### Foreign Interest

Ever since China began relaxing its trade policy in 1978, foreign companies have eagerly sought the Chinese consumer’s *yuan* (Chinese for dollar). Coca-Cola was one of the first Western brands in China, entering in 1979. Through an investment of more than $1 billion in a series of joint venture bottling plants, Coke gradually expanded its presence there. Over the years, it became far more successful than Jianlibao, China’s biggest domestic soft drinks player, which saw its market share fall dramatically. With a goal of making China its biggest market by 2020, Coca-Cola announced at the end of 2011 that it would invest an additional $4 billion over a three-year period in new plants and existing operations such as bottling lines, warehouses, and coolers, raising its total investment there to $7 billion for 2009–2014. By December 2011, the company had 41 bottling plants in China and employed more than 48,000 people.88 Other foreign companies have also achieved considerable success in China, notably KFC.
