# Page 462

**Document Title**: Strategic Brand Management: Building, Measuring, and Managing Brand Equity
**Author**: Kevin Lane Keller
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Strategic_Brand_Management.pdf
**Page Number**: 462/591
**Processing Time**: 2026-02-06T16:53:10.290962

---

Broniarczyk and Alba provide another compelling demonstration of the importance of recognizing salient brand associations. A brand that may not even be as favorably evaluated as a competing brand in its category may be more successfully extended into certain categories, depending on the particular parent brand associations involved. For example, although Close-Up toothpaste was not as well liked by their sample as Crest, a proposed Close-Up breath mint extension was evaluated more favorably than one from Crest. But a proposed Crest toothbrush extension was evaluated more favorably than one from Close-Up.⁶⁶

Broniarczyk and Alba also showed that a perceived lack of fit between the parent brand’s product category and the proposed extension category could be overcome if key parent brand associations were salient and relevant in the extension category. For example, Froot Loops cereal—which has strong brand associations to “sweet,” “flavor,” and “kids”—was better able to extend to dissimilar product categories such as lollipops and popsicles than to similar product categories such as waffles and hot cereal, because of the relevance of its brand associations in the dissimilar extension category. The reverse was true for Cheerios cereal, however, which had a “healthy grain” association that was relevant only in similar extension product categories.

Thus, extension fit is more than just the number of common and distinctive brand associations between the parent brand and the extension product category.⁶⁷ These research studies and others demonstrate the importance of taking a broader perspective of categorization and fit. For example, Bridges, Keller, and Sood refer to “category coherence.” Coherent categories are those whose members “hang together” and “make sense.” According to these authors, to understand the rationale for a grouping of products in a brand line, a consumer needs “explanatory links” that tie the products together and summarize their relationship. The physically dissimilar toy, bath care, and car seat products in the Fisher-Price product line can be united by the link “products for children.”⁶⁸

Researchers have also explored other, more specific, aspects of fit. Boush provides experimental data about the robustness and context sensitivity of fit judgments.⁶⁹ Similarity judgments between pairs of product categories were found to be asymmetrical, and brand name associations could reverse the direction of asymmetry. For example, more subjects agreed with the statement “*Time* magazine is like *Time* books” than with the statement, “*Time* books are like *Time* magazine,” but without the brand names (just using “books” and “magazines”), the preferences were reversed. Smith and Andrews surveyed industrial goods marketers and found that the relationship between fit and new product evaluations was not direct; it was mediated and influenced by customers’ confidence that a firm could provide a proposed new product.⁷⁰

3. **Depending on their knowledge of the product categories, consumers may perceive fit based on technical or manufacturing commonalities, or on surface considerations such as necessary or situational complementarity.** Consumers can also base fit on considerations other than attributes or benefits. Taking a demand-side and supply-side perspective of consumer perceptions, Aaker and Keller showed that perceived fit between the parent brand and the extension product could be related to the economic notions of substitutability and complementarity in product use (from a demand-side perspective), as well as to the firm’s perceived grasp of the skills and assets necessary to make the extension product (from a supply-side perspective).

Thus, Honda’s perceived expertise in making motors for lawn mowers and cars may help perceptions of fit for any other machinery with small motors that Honda might want to introduce. Similarly, expertise with small disposable products offers numerous opportunities for Bic. On the other hand, some extension examples have little manufacturing compatibility but greater usage complementarity, such as Colgate’s extension from toothpaste to toothbrushes or Duracell’s extension from batteries to flashlights.

These perceptions of fit, however, may depend on how much consumers know about the product categories. As Muthukrishnan and Weitz demonstrated, “expert” consumers are more likely to use technical or manufacturing commonalities to judge fit, considering similarity in terms of technology, design and fabrication, and the materials and components used in the manufacturing process. Less knowledgeable “novice” consumers, on the other hand, are more likely to use superficial, perceptual considerations such as common package, Honda’s positive reputation for small motors has been an asset when it moved into categories that use similar types of machinery such as lawnmowers.
