# Page 543

**Document Title**: Strategic Brand Management: Building, Measuring, and Managing Brand Equity
**Author**: Kevin Lane Keller
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Strategic_Brand_Management.pdf
**Page Number**: 543/591
**Processing Time**: 2026-02-06T16:53:10.302196

---

> **KFC**  
> China accounts for over a third of international profits for Yum Brands, which owns KFC and Pizza Hut. KFC has been a global pioneer in many markets. Since it first opened a restaurant on the edge of Beijing’s Tiananmen Square in 1987, the chain has experienced virtually uninterrupted growth, approaching 5,000 restaurants with an ultimate goal of 15,000. Local touches to the menu beyond Colonel Sanders’s secret fried chicken recipe include spicy chicken, soy milk drinks, egg tarts, fried dough sticks, wraps with local spices, fish and shrimp burgers on fresh buns, and rice gruel with preserved or “thousand-year-old” egg. The company introduces 50 new products a year. Spiciness varies depending on the region—more in Sichuan and Hunan, less in Shanghai. KFC China established its own distribution system with warehouses and trucks to ensure the rapid response needed for a fast-changing menu. To ensure higher levels of customer service, the vast majority of KFC outlets are company owned. All these changes paid off. In 2011, KFC revenue in China surpassed U.S. earnings, with an expectation that it will double within five years.89

Some faded foreign brands have managed to remake their images in China. Howard Johnson operates four- and five-star hotels there complete with marble floors, which have enabled the company to successfully position itself as an upscale chain. But fierce competition in many markets has made it hard for some companies to sustain their success. Motorola, recognizing the enormous potential of the Chinese market early, entered in the late 1980s and worked extensively with government leaders to develop wireless telecommunications infrastructure and related skilled manufacturing, becoming the largest foreign investor in China’s electronics industry. Yet it found its market leadership besieged by a wave of local competitors in the 2000s. By 2006, consumers had hundreds of models to choose from, and young urban users typically changed phones every eight months. When Motorola failed to introduce a worthy successor to the Razr, competitors Samsung and Nokia pounced. Motorola’s market share plummeted, reinforcing the intense nature of competition in China.90  
Competition comes not just from international brands. The next section highlights the growing number of local Chinese brands competing with, and at times beating, the foreign competition.

## Emerging Local Leaders

Many Chinese consumer electronics and consumer packaged-goods brands are the market leaders at home. Haier, China’s number-one appliance maker, is a multibillion manufacturing giant based in Qingdao. Gome and Suning are China’s top electronics retailers, each with over 1,000 stores, $2 billion in sales, and “the kind of high-plateau brand recognition that Best Buy enjoys in the U.S.”91 Foreign brewers were forced to regroup after early forays into China were confounded by the cheaper and better-distributed market leaders Tsingtao and Snow (partially owned by SAB Miller), as well as a host of other, smaller local beers. Zhangyu and Great Wall are top-10 selling wines worldwide whose sales are based almost entirely in China.92 The Internet is another area where Chinese brands often rule at home.

> **CHINESE INTERNET BRANDS**  
> With over 500 million Internet users by 2012, China had the largest online population in the world. But U.S. Internet giants Facebook, Google, eBay and others have all struggled to gain a foothold there in the face of strong local competition. Google famously withdrew from mainland China to Hong Kong in March 2010 after a censorship dispute with the Chinese government. Although the government exerts much control over local online services, portals Sina.com and Sohu.com, video Web sites Youku.com and Tudou.com, and search engine Baidu have reported growing traffic and revenues. The widespread appeal of Tencent’s popular instant messaging service QQ and related suite of products has made it China’s largest Internet company, with its cute penguin mascot as the brand symbol. Chinese users chat, game, watch movies, and top up their prepaid mobile phones with their QQ service—to the tune of $3 billion in revenue in 2010. Baidu followed Google’s U.S. lead but added features to make the search engine work more effectively in China. Better able to parse sentences in Chinese, and with 11 links to other services, including a Wikipedia-like encylopedia, the service has been seen as better at understanding the Chinese users’ tastes. Alibaba Group has the world’s largest online business-to-business trading platform for small and medium-sized businesses.93

One reason for their success is that local brands possess superior distribution networks built from the ground up, enabling them to reach millions of consumers not served by the multinationals, which initially targeted only major Chinese cities. Many local brands are outspending their foreign rivals on advertising. Of the top 10 advertisers in China in 2004, half were Chinese brands, spending a combined $1.5 billion.94  
Perhaps no brand typifies Chinese brands’ ability to win on their own turf better than Lenovo (formerly Legend), a Chinese PC manufacturer. Lenovo was started in 1984 and initially struggled to keep pace with foreign brands. As recently as 1997, it was losing money and market share to brands like IBM, HP, and Compaq. But within two years, it had turned its financial fortunes around with the help of low prices, government contracts, and a vast distribution network, growing more than 100 percent between 1998 and 1999 and grabbing 15 percent market share, about twice that of its closest rival. It protected and grew its market leadership in China, which enabled it to purchase IBM’s PC division in 2005. In early 2006, it began selling low-priced PCs bearing the Lenovo name in the United States. In 2012, Lenovo still commanded over a third of China’s giant PC market, while also passing Dell to become the world’s second largest PC maker behind HP.95 Its global ambitions illustrate the latest brand trend to emerge in China, that of local brands growing globally. This trend is the topic of the next section.
