# Page 524

**Document Title**: Strategic Brand Management: Building, Measuring, and Managing Brand Equity
**Author**: Kevin Lane Keller
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Strategic_Brand_Management.pdf
**Page Number**: 524/591
**Processing Time**: 2026-02-06T16:53:10.299384

---

> For example, in Australia, the advertising appeals to the same “classic, original” ideals but in a very Australian fashion which reflects their active lifestyles and fun-loving, irreverent attitude. Moreover, the marketing mix is designed in each country to stress that Coke is positioned positively on attributes relative to local competitive products. Hence, although Coke looks similar across the globe, its specific image may be very different, depending on what is considered “relevant” in each country. The advantage is that Coke becomes entwined with the cultural fabric of the country, just as it has in the United States. Over time this yields an advantage with younger generations, who don’t even think of Coke as an imported brand. Coca-Cola recounts the example of a Japanese family visiting the United States for the first time. The young son, upon passing a vending machine, joyfully exclaimed to his parents, “Look, they have Coke here too!”

> In 1999, Coca-Cola’s new global marketing mantra became “Think Local. Act Local”—an important twist on its old mantra, “Think Global. Act Local.” Intended to get Coca-Cola back to the basics, the strategy meant hiring more local staff and allowing field managers to tailor marketing to their regions. The results of this hyperlocal focus were missed sales targets and local advertising that, in some cases, did not fit with the carefully crafted Coke image, such as an Italian ad featuring skinny-dippers running along a beach. The company scrapped the “Think Local. Act Local” mantra in favor of a hybrid strategy, in which a global marketing network of local executives took direction from Coke’s Atlanta headquarters, with some room for interpretation at the local level.

> Today, Coca-Cola conducts business with more than 400 brands in over 200 countries. About three-quarters of its revenues come from outside the United States. For example, while Coca-Cola sells Coke to a growing group of consumers in Asia, it also sells local brands there, such as the hugely successful Georgia iced coffee in Japan, which actually outsells Coke, as well as new drinks, such as Nagomi green tea and the honey-and-grapefruit drink Hachimitsu. In China, the company introduced Tian Yu Di (“heaven and earth”), a fruit juice and tea, and Yangguang (“sunshine”) lemon tea, plus other flavors. In India, a big seller for Coca-Cola is Thums Up, an indigenous variant it bought in 1993. It also sells Maaza fruit-based drinks there. The company finds its Coke brand trailing Pepsi in India, in part due to the fact that Coke was withdrawn from the market from 1977 to 1993. Its combination of local and global brands enables Coca-Cola to exploit the benefits of global branding and global trends in tastes while tapping into traditional domestic markets at the same time.

> As much as Coke has accomplished globally, many opportunities still remain. Per capita consumption of Coke is much lower in India and China than in the United States, Europe, and Latin America. Africa has even more potential. Annual per capita consumption in Kenya is 39 servings, a far cry from Mexico, which consumes more Coke than any other country at 665 servings a year. Success in Africa requires literally a street-by-street campaign with mom-and-pop stores everywhere. Most Cokes are sold in returnable glass bottles there, which are refilled as many as 70 times each before being recycled. Returnable bottles help keep prices down—the consumer literally pays for just the liquid in the bottle—allowing the company to reach what it calls “economically diverse” customers.

> Sources: Duane D. Stanford, “Coke’s Last Round,” *Bloomberg BusinessWeek*, 1 November 2010; Mehul Srivastava, “For India’s Consumers, Pepsi Is the Real Thing, *Bloomberg BusinessWeek*, 20 September 2010; “Coke Profit Fails to Meet Expectations,” *New York Times*, 20 April 2010; “The Story of Coca-Cola,” www.coca-cola.com; Betsy McKay, “Coca-Cola Restructuring Effort Has Yet to Prove Effective,” *Asian Wall Street Journal*, 2 March 2001; Kate MacArthur, “Coke Commits $400M to Fix It,” *Advertising Age*, 15 November 2004; Theresa Howard, “Coca-Cola Hopes Taking New Path Leads to Success,” *USA Today*, 6 March 2001, 6B; Michael Flagg, “Coca-Cola Adopts Local-Drinks Strategy in Asia,” *Wall Street Journal*, 30 July 2001.

As a result, they sometimes became aware of consumer differences only after the fact. To avoid these types of mistakes, marketers may need to conduct research into local markets.

In many cases, however, marketing research reveals that product differences are not justified for certain countries. At one time, Palmolive soap was sold globally with 22 different fragrances, 17 packages, nine shapes, and numerous positionings. After conducting marketing analyses to reap the benefits of global marketing, the company chose to employ just seven fragrances, one core packaging design, and three main shapes, all executed around two related positionings (one for developing markets and one for developed markets).<sup>34</sup> Branding Brief 14-3 describes how UPS has successfully adapted its service for the European market.

From a corporate perspective, one obvious solution to the trade-off between global and local brands is to sell both types of brands as part of the brand portfolio in a category. Even companies that have succeeded with global brands maintain that standardized international marketing programs work with only some products, in some places, and at some times, and will never totally replace brands and ads with local appeal.<sup>35</sup> Thus, despite the trend toward globalization, it seems that there will always be opportunities for good local brands.

