# Page 563

**Document Title**: Strategic Brand Management: Building, Measuring, and Managing Brand Equity
**Author**: Kevin Lane Keller
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Strategic_Brand_Management.pdf
**Page Number**: 563/591
**Processing Time**: 2026-02-06T16:53:10.304733

---

These developments have fundamentally affected how companies communicate about their products and services. Firms now have a host of ways to distribute and sell their products online or offline, directly or indirectly. Marketers are embracing different types of personal and mass media and combining online interactive communications, “real world” experiential communications, and traditional mass media communications. They are also merging “push” and “pull” distribution strategies to maximize coverage and impact, selling directly via the mail, the Internet, telephones and cell phones, and company stores, while also selling indirectly via wholesalers and retailers.

The challenge for top brands is assembling the best set of channel and communication options to maximize sales in the short run and brand equity in the long run. The art and science of integrated marketing is to optimally design and implement any one channel or communication activity so that it creates not only *direct* effects, but also *indirect* effects that increase the impact of other channel or communication options. A breathtaking TV ad may change a viewer’s opinions of a brand, but it may also make that viewer more likely to visit the brand’s Web site or respond more favorably to a later brand promotion.

As a result of the increasingly diverse communications options available to companies today, consumers have different channel and communications histories and, as a result, very different levels of brand knowledge. This creates a challenge—and an opportunity—for the wise brand marketer. Ideally, a channel or communication option or activity would be versatile enough to work effectively regardless of consumer history or past experience. Indeed, one advantage of a well-designed Web site is that, because of its interactivity, it can successfully communicate and sell to consumers regardless of their personal shopping or communications history.

For example, Nike’s amazing marketing success is partly due to its combination of a broad range of distribution channels with an extensive online and offline communication program, as relevant to the world’s elite athletes looking to excel in their sport as it is to the average person who just wants to incorporate Nike into everyday recreational life.

**Social Media.** As more consumers spend more time on the Internet, it is crucial to use online, interactive communications to affect consumers directly at all stages of the consumer decision funnel and thus to reinforce offline marketing efforts. An online, interactive communications programs typically includes some or all of the following: a well-designed Web site (with customer-generated content and feedback); e-mails; banner, rich media, or other forms of electronic ads; search advertising; and social media. Of these, the newest and most challenging component is social media.

Social media programs—encompassing online communities, forums, blogs (including Sugar, Gawker, and others) and a presence on Web sites such as Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube—provide an effective means to creative active engagement and involvement with consumers. By offering the right online information, experiences, and platforms for brands, marketers can help consumers learn from each other about a brand as well as express their brand loyalty and observe that of others. However, engaging and involving consumers brings potential dangers as well, such as subversive behavior by a small group of consumers or undeservedly negative feedback. Undesirable branding effects can occur with or without a social media campaign, of course, although being online and providing a positive point of view may help counterbalance or even overcome them. Adopting a “thick-skin” stance online is imperative, given that a caustic comment or unpleasant review is only one consumer click away and some negativity is to be expected and tolerated.

Fortunately, an increasingly robust and detailed set of online metrics exist by which marketers can track the nature, extent, and valence of public sentiment. By monitoring online buzz and activities in this way, marketers can more effectively assess and determine the proper response to any potentially damaging online or even offline episode. When Accenture was debating what to do with its corporate spokesperson, Tiger Woods, after his sex scandal, the company closely followed the buzz online. An upset and outraged public was an important consideration when the firm decided to drop its long-time endorser.
