# Page 495

**Document Title**: Strategic Brand Management: Building, Measuring, and Managing Brand Equity
**Author**: Kevin Lane Keller
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Strategic_Brand_Management.pdf
**Page Number**: 495/591
**Processing Time**: 2026-02-06T16:53:10.295694

---

# BRANDING BRIEF 13-4

## A New Morning for Mountain Dew

Mountain Dew was launched in 1969. PepsiCo initially marketed it with a rural folksy image, exemplified by the countrified tag line “Yahoo Mountain Dew! It’ll Tickle Your Innards.” Since then, the drink has far outgrown its provincial roots, though an unsuccessful attempt to bring urban teenagers to the brand in the early 1980s by advertising on MTV left it on the brink of deletion. The company decided to switch its ad focus to outdoors action scenes, and by the late 1980s, Mountain Dew had begun to show signs of life again.

The brand really hit its stride in the 1990s, experiencing phenomenal double-digit growth. Mountain Dew was the fastest-growing major U.S. soft drink for much of the decade, rising to a market share of 7.2 percent in 2000 from a mere 2.7 percent back in 1980. Growth was fueled by some edgy advertising from PepsiCo’s long-time ad agency BBDO that was funny and fast-paced, featuring a rotating group of guys—the Dew dudes—engaged in action sports such as skydiving, skateboarding, and snowboarding to up-tempo music. The tag line “Do the Dew,” was a strong call to action, and the ads were a high-energy blast of adrenalin.

The next decade saw much product expansion, introduction of nontraditional marketing, and a pioneering digital strategy. In 2000, PepsiCo launched Mountain Dew Code Red, the brand’s first line extension since Diet Mountain Dew debuted in 1988. The bright red cherry-flavored drink was supported by a national advertising campaign that employed grassroots marketing as well as high-profile media buys. The launch was an unqualified success.

To better connect with its core teen audience, Mountain Dew increased its sponsorship of the Mix Tape street basketball tour and the Dew Action Sports Tour. The company also launched the Dew U loyalty program, in which drinkers exchanged codes printed under bottle caps for a variety of goods available on the Dew U Internet site.

In 2005, Mountain Dew launched another brand extension, a highly caffeinated energy drink called MDX aimed at the estimated 180 million video game players, by introducing it as the official soft drink of the E3 Electronics Entertainment Expo. Prior to the launch, the company invited gamers to “beta-test” the product in order to refine the recipe and name.

All these actions helped Mountain Dew remain the number-four carbonated U.S. beverage in terms of sales throughout the decade. A logo change on the packaging occurred in 2008, as the company chose the simpler “Mtn Dew.” An even bigger change was a viral marketing experiment in crowdsourcing that put customers into the actual product development process. The initial “Dewmocracy” campaign began in 2007 and included an online game in which players designed a new drink.

The follow-up Dewmocracy campaign in 2009 raised the stakes. Mountain Dew marketers put the bulk of their marketing budget online to allow consumers to select three new flavors to be distributed nationwide. The campaign began with 50 contest winners receiving home-tasting kits of seven potential flavors. They were instructed to share their tasting experiences via video on YouTube. Next, consumers helped pick the colors, names, packaging, and even the ad agency! Enormous buzz followed—much of it generated by the actual product users, as intended.

> **Sources:**  
> Theresa Howard, “Being True to Dew,” *Brandweek*, 24 April 2000;  
> Greg Johnson, “Mountain Dew Hits New Heights to Help Pepsi Grab a New Generation,” *Los Angeles Times*, 6 October 1999;  
> Michael J. McCarthy, “Mountain Dew Goes Urban to Revamp Country Image,” *Wall Street Journal*, 19 April 1989;  
> “Top-10 U.S. Soft Drink Companies and Brands for 2000,” *Beverage Digest*, 15 February 2001;  
> Kate MacArthur, “Mountain Dew Gives Gamers More Caffeine,” *Advertising Age*, 26 September 2005, 6;  
> Gregg Bennett, Mauricio Ferreora, Jaedeock Lee, and Fritz Polie, “The Role of Involvement in Sports and Sports Spectatorship in Sponsor’s Brand Use: The Case of Mountain Dew and Action Sports Sponsorship,” *Sports Marketing Quarterly*, 18 (March 2009): 14–24;  
> Natalie Zmuda, “Why Mtn Dew Let Skater Dudes Take Control of Its Marketing,” *Advertising Age*, 22 February 2010.

----

Finally, note that *market* failures, in which insufficient consumers are attracted to a brand, are typically much less damaging than *product* failures, in which the brand fundamentally fails to live up to its consumer promise. In the latter case, strong, negative associations may be difficult to overcome. With market failures, a relaunch can sometimes prove successful.

----

## FEBREZE

When P&G introduced Febreze household odor eliminators, it adopted the classic problem–solution pattern that characterizes much of its brand advertising. But there was one flaw—people didn’t think they had a problem! They had become accustomed to odors from cigarettes, pets, and cooking, no matter what others might say. When the problem–solution ads fell flat, P&G’s marketers conducted in-depth research, prompting a relaunch that focused on Febreze as a finishing touch and a way to celebrate that a room was really clean. The new positioning connected, and sales exploded. With revenues now exceeding a billion dollars, Febreze has been successfully extended into air fresheners, candles, and laundry detergents.  
<sup>16</sup> With an understanding of the current and desired brand knowledge structures in hand, we can again look to the customer-based brand equity framework for guidance about how to best refresh old sources of brand equity or create new ones to achieve the intended positioning.
