# Page 613

**Document Title**: Principles of Marketing 17th Edition
**Author**: Philip Kotler, Gary Armstrong
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Kotler_and_Armstrong_Principles_of_Marketing.pdf
**Page Number**: 613/736
**Processing Time**: 2025-11-23T20:00:41.907471

---

This vision of sustainability provides a framework for pollution control, product stewardship, and new environmental technology for the company and others to follow. It addresses not just challenges in the natural environment but also strategic opportunities for using environmental strategies to create sustainable value for the firm and its markets.

Most companies today focus on the upper-left quadrant of the grid in Figure 20.2, investing most heavily in pollution prevention. Some forward-looking companies practice product stewardship and are developing new environmental technologies. However, emphasizing only one or two quadrants in the environmental sustainability grid can be shortsighted. Investing only in the left half of the grid puts a company in a good position today but leaves it vulnerable in the future. In contrast, a heavy emphasis on the right half suggests that a company has good environmental vision but lacks the skills needed to implement it. Thus, companies should work at developing all four dimensions of environmental sustainability.

The North Face, for example, is doing just that through its own environmental sustainability actions and its impact on the actions of suppliers and consumers:[^20]

> The North Face’s new headquarters building in Alameda, California, comes complete with solar panels and wind turbines that generate more electricity than the building uses. The building employs an evaporating cooling system that eliminates the need for emissions-heavy coolants. The company’s other regional headquarters and distribution centers also incorporate solar or water-saving features. In manufacturing, The North Face works closely with suppliers to achieve its goal to use polyester—which makes up 80 percent of its clothing lines—from 100 percent recycled content. The North Face also partners with suppliers to reduce waste and chemical, water, and energy usage in their mills. Since 2010, The North Face’s suppliers have removed more than 100 tanker trucks of chemicals and more than 230 Olympic swimming pools of water from their manufacturing processes.

> In addition, The North Face has dedicated itself to inspiring customers to reduce the waste generated by today’s fast-fashion era. The company’s lifetime apparel and gear warranty results in the return and repair of more than 80,000 products annually. 🔵 The North Face also runs a program called “Clothes the Loop,” by which it collects worn-out or unwanted used clothing of any brand from customers for recycling or renewal. Items dropped in its collection bins are sent to a recycling center where they are carefully sorted, then repurposed for reuse to extend their life or recycled into raw materials for use in making other products. Proceeds from the program benefit the Conservation Alliance, which funds community-based campaigns to protect shared wilderness and recreation areas.

> For The North Face, being environmentally sustainable is about more than just doing the right thing. It also makes good business sense. More efficient operations and less wasteful products not only are good for the environment but also save The North Face money, helping it to deliver more value to customers. It’s a winning combination. “At the heart of The North Face is a mission to inspire a global movement of outdoor exploration and conservation,” says The North Face’s president. “We believe the success of our business is fundamentally linked to having a healthy planet.”[^21]

----

Protect Our Clothes Playground  
RECYCLE  
RENEW  
REWARD  
Recycle your used apparel and footwear at any The North Face retail store or outlet. Receive a reward for your efforts and help preserve our outdoor playground.  
THE NORTH FACE

**Sustainability vision: At The North Face, sustainability is about more than just doing the right thing—it also makes good business sense. Sustainability efforts such as its “Clothes the Loop” program are good for the company, its customers, and _the_ planet.**  
_VF Corporation_

----

## Public Actions to Regulate Marketing

Citizen concerns about marketing practices will usually lead to public attention and legislative proposals. Many of the laws that affect marketing were identified in Chapter 3. The task is to translate these laws into a language that marketing executives understand as they make decisions about competitive relations, products, price, promotion, and distribution channels. 🟢 **Figure 20.3** illustrates the major legal issues facing marketing management.

