# Page 8

**Document Title**: Principles of Marketing 17th Edition
**Author**: Philip Kotler, Gary Armstrong
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Kotler_and_Armstrong_Principles_of_Marketing.pdf
**Page Number**: 8/736
**Processing Time**: 2025-11-23T20:00:41.597998

---

# About the Authors

Professor Kotler is one of the world’s leading authorities on marketing. Professor Armstrong is an award-winning teacher of undergraduate business students. Together, they make the complex world of marketing practical, approachable, and enjoyable.

**Philip Kotler** is S.C. Johnson & Son Distinguished Professor of International Marketing at the Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University. He received his master’s degree at the University of Chicago and his Ph.D. at M.I.T., both in economics. Dr. Kotler is the author of *Marketing Management* (Pearson), now in its fifteenth edition and the most widely used marketing textbook in graduate schools of business worldwide. He has authored more than 50 other successful books and has published more than 150 articles in leading journals. He is the only three-time winner of the coveted Alpha Kappa Psi award for the best annual article in the *Journal of Marketing*.

Professor Kotler was named the first recipient of four major awards: the *Distinguished Marketing Educator of the Year Award* and the *William L. Wilkie “Marketing for a Better World” Award*, both given by the American Marketing Association; the *Philip Kotler Award for Excellence in Health Care Marketing* presented by the Academy for Health Care Services Marketing; and the *Sheth Foundation Medal for Exceptional Contribution to Marketing Scholarship and Practice*. He is a charter member of the Marketing Hall of Fame, was voted the first Leader in Marketing Thought by the American Marketing Association, and was named the Founder of Modern Marketing Management in the *Handbook of Management Thinking*. His numerous other major honors include the Sales and Marketing Executives International *Marketing Educator of the Year Award*; the European Association of Marketing Consultants and Trainers *Marketing Excellence Award*; the *Charles Coolidge Parlin Marketing Research Award*; and the *Paul D. Converse Award*, given by the American Marketing Association to honor “outstanding contributions to science in marketing.” A recent *Forbes* survey ranks Professor Kotler in the top 10 of the world’s most influential business thinkers. And in a recent *Financial Times* poll of 1,000 senior executives across the world, Professor Kotler was ranked as the fourth “most influential business writer/guru” of the twenty-first century.

Dr. Kotler has served as chairman of the College on Marketing of the Institute of Management Sciences, a director of the American Marketing Association, and a trustee of the Marketing Science Institute. He has consulted with many major U.S. and international companies in the areas of marketing strategy and planning, marketing organization, and international marketing.

He has traveled and lectured extensively throughout Europe, Asia, and South America, advising companies and governments about global marketing practices and opportunities.

**Gary Armstrong** is Crist W. Blackwell Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Undergraduate Education in the Kenan-Flagler Business School at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He holds undergraduate and master’s degrees in business from Wayne State University in Detroit, and he received his Ph.D. in marketing from Northwestern University. Dr. Armstrong has contributed numerous articles to leading business journals. As a consultant and researcher, he has worked with many companies on marketing research, sales management, and marketing strategy.

But Professor Armstrong’s first love has always been teaching. His long-held Blackwell Distinguished Professorship is the only permanent endowed professorship for distinguished undergraduate teaching at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He has been very active in the teaching and administration of Kenan-Flagler’s undergraduate program. His administrative posts have included Chair of Marketing, Associate Director of the Undergraduate Business Program, Director of the Business Honors Program, and many others. Through the years, he has worked closely with business student groups and has received several UNC campuswide and Business School teaching awards. He is the only repeat recipient of the school’s highly regarded Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching, which he received three times. Most recently, Professor Armstrong received the UNC Board of Governors Award for Excellence in Teaching, the highest teaching honor bestowed by the sixteen-campus University of North Carolina system.

**Marc Oliver Opresnik** is Professor of Marketing and Management and Member of the Board of Directors at SGMI St. Gallen Management Institute, a leading international business school. In addition, he is Professor of Business Administration at Luebeck University of Applied Sciences as well as a visiting professor to international universities such as the European Business School in London and East China University of Science and Technology in Shanghai. He has 10 years of experience working in senior management and marketing positions for Shell International Petroleum Co. Ltd. and is the author of numerous articles and books. Along with Kevin Keller and Phil Kotler, he is co-author of the German edition of *Marketing Management*. In addition, he is a co-editor and member of the editorial board of several international journals such as *Transnational Marketing*, *Journal of World Marketing Summit Group*, and *International Journal of New Technologies in Science and Engineering*. He was also appointed Chief Research Officer at Kotler Impact Inc., Philip Kotler’s international company. His responsibilities include the global development, planning, implementation, and management of university courses and executive training as well as global research initiatives and cooperations.

As president of his consulting firm Opresnik Management Consulting, Professor Opresnik works as a coach, keynote speaker, and consultant for numerous institutions, governments, and international corporations, including Google, Coca-Cola, McDonald’s, Dräger, RWE, SAP, Porsche, Audi, Volkswagen, Shell International Petroleum Co. Ltd., Procter & Gamble, Unilever, L’Oréal, Bayer, BASF, and Adidas. More than 100,000 people have benefited professionally and personally from his work as a coach in seminars on marketing, sales, and negotiation and as a speaker at conferences all over the world, including locations like St. Gallen, Davos, St. Moritz, Berlin, Houston, Moscow, London, Paris, Dubai, and Tokyo.
