# Page 212

**Document Title**: Principles of Marketing 17th Edition
**Author**: Philip Kotler, Gary Armstrong
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Kotler_and_Armstrong_Principles_of_Marketing.pdf
**Page Number**: 212/736
**Processing Time**: 2025-11-23T20:00:41.694250

---

Since its foundation, Henkel Saudi Arabia has enjoyed tremendous growth, and its workforce is currently comprised of more than 300 people, making the brand the no. 2 market player in the home-care category. As Amitabh Bose, the former Marketing Head of Henkel Saudi Arabia, notes, Henkel’s brand presence is epitomized by the success of its premium laundry detergent Persil, which has revolutionized the Middle Eastern market with its focus on developing strong brand equity, generating consumer insights, and evolving outstanding marketing campaigns. The Saudi Arabia region was targeted by Henkel a couple of years ago across two main segments—men and women—with three exceptionally innovative and, later, extremely successful products: Persil Abaya Shampoo for women, and Persil White liquid detergent and Persil Starch Spray for men.

The introduction of both lines of products was based on extensive market research on regional consumer insights and preferences. Research by Henkel proved that nearly 75 percent of GCC consumers wash *thobes* (long white dresses traditionally worn by men in the region) with a mix of detergent and bleach, which, in time, negatively affects the brightness of the garments’ white color. Research also revealed the lack of a suitable starch spray in the detergent market that would give *thobes* the right level of firmness preferred by local consumers. Persil White and Persil Starch Spray, the first range of laundry products aimed at GCC men, achieved an enormous market share and sales 90 percent above forecasts within only four months after its launch. This success as a new laundry product was predominantly based on a deep understanding of the regional consumers’ needs and preferences.

In addition, women traditionally wear *abayas*, loose robe-like garments that are typically black. As local men take pride in the brightness of their *thobes’* white color and the fabric’s firmness, women exercise great care in maintaining the depth of their *abayas’* black color and the richness of the fabric. Amal Murad, a well-known fashion designer, emphasizes that it is paramount that women take care of their *abayas* in order to maintain its look, feel, and color.

As a result, Persil Abaya Shampoo (also known as Persil Black) was developed to offer the perfect retention of the black color by using the revolutionary Henkel technology “black color lock.” The liquid detergent combines true cleaning power with special color protection for black and dark garments—particularly important if these are washed frequently. Persil Abaya Shampoo also safeguards the fabric and gives the *abaya* an enduring floral scent. Research on local consumers revealed that almost 50 percent of them adopt inappropriate and damaging practices in cleaning their *abayas*, such as using powdered detergents, fabric softeners, or even hair and body shampoo. That’s why Persil Abaya Shampoo was viewed as revolutionary in the regional world of laundry.

Persil’s success in the Middle East is predominantly due to a deep understanding of the regional consumers’ needs and preferences. Newscast Online Limited/Alamy Stock Photo

The marketing strategy applied by Henkel serves as an excellent example of how the mix of common global technology and scale (economies of scale or low-cost production) can be combined with a local and regional marketing strategy. The Persil brands have common product formulations, but with regionally tailored product strategies in the form of different packaging and marketing communication. Persil Abaya was launched in the Gulf States through a mix of TV commercials and a very successful online viral campaign. An interactive website was set up and Henkel also sponsored a reality TV designer competition in cooperation with Swarovski Elements in order to show that the *abaya* has transcended the traditional garment to become an individual fashion and personality statement. By focusing on generating insights to understand market trends and customers’ special needs in different regions, Henkel found huge success with its brands. Its marketing strategy has been considered a successful example of a totally customer-driven strategy.  
