# Page 342

**Document Title**: Principles of Marketing 17th Edition
**Author**: Philip Kotler, Gary Armstrong
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Kotler_and_Armstrong_Principles_of_Marketing.pdf
**Page Number**: 342/736
**Processing Time**: 2025-11-23T20:00:41.751966

---

# 11.1 Dynamic Pricing at EasyJet and Ryanair: Climbing the Skies with Low Prices

These days, it appears that every seller knows the prices competitors are charging for anything and everything that is sold, minute by minute, and down to the penny. Moreover, today’s technologies have provided sellers with the flexibility to adjust their prices on the fly. This often results in some pretty unconventional pricing dynamics, such as dynamic pricing, a strategy in which businesses set flexible prices for products or services based on current market demands. This approach is routinely and successfully used by low-cost airlines EasyJet and Ryanair in order to constantly adjust fares for specific flights, depending on competitor pricing and anticipated seat availability.

The entry of no-frills carriers EasyJet and Ryanair into the European market has totally revolutionized the air passenger transport industry. The attraction is fares set at approximately one-fifth of those of the mainstream airlines. The fleet is made up entirely of one type of aircraft to keep costs down by reducing pilot training and maintenance costs. It mostly flies between secondary airports, which are sometimes over an hour’s drive from the city centers. However, it was only in the 1990s that the phenomenon spread worldwide. Ryanair was one of the first airlines in Europe to adopt the business model in 1992, followed by its main low-cost competitor, EasyJet. Growth has been spectacular for both airlines. EasyJet carried almost 7 million passengers during May 2016, an increase of 5.7 percent over the same period in 2015. In its own numbers for April 2016, Ryanair reported a 10 percent increase in passengers to 9.9 million, and a 2 percent rise in load factor to 93 percent. The growth in the low-cost sector has been fueled by the increasing market for short-haul city breaks, the more adventurous holidaymakers’ preference to arrange their own vacation packages, and the wish to own holiday homes in warm, sunny climates. These factors, together with the drive by businesses to cut travel costs, have driven growth in passenger numbers.

Founded in 1995, EasyJet is one of Europe’s leading airlines, operating on over 600 routes across more than 30 countries and employing over 8,000 people. In 2015, they flew nearly 70 million passengers. A key element in EasyJet’s success has been its approach to pricing. The conventional method of selling airline seats was to start selling at a certain price and then lower it if sales were too low. What EasyJet founder Stelios Haji Ioannou pioneered was quite the opposite: the start was a low headline price that grabbed attention, and then it was raised with respect to demand—this was dynamic pricing. Dynamic pricing here means that seats on a particular flight are priced differently according to the level of demand for the seats still to be sold. Simply speaking, the higher the demand for seats, the more expensive they are likely to be. Because demand tends to get stronger as the flight gets closer to departure, prices will tend to go up. Accordingly, the less expensive seats will always be sold first. Customers are, of course, never told how soon or by how much the price will be changed. This system of dynamic pricing is designed to allow airline seats to be priced according to supply and demand, and achieve high seat occupancy. This reflects the fact that a particular seat on a specific flight cannot be stored for later resale; if it remains empty, the revenue is lost.

Compared to traditional airlines such as British Airways or Lufthansa, EasyJet is in a position to offer much lower fares due to strict cost controlling. This is achieved through simplicity (using one aircraft type), productivity (fast turnaround times to achieve high aircraft use), direct distribution (using the internet for upfront payment and low administrative charges), and dynamic pricing (pricing the seats based on the level of demand to maximize revenue and profits). In addition, onboard costs are reduced by not providing free drinks or meals to passengers. The company’s approach is to fly to relatively few destinations but at a higher frequency on each route and to save costs by mostly flying from secondary airports. To differentiate from its rival Ryanair, however, EasyJet flies more often from big airports such as Gatwick Airport in the United Kingdom or Milan Malpensa in Italy. The company also offers flexible fares that are attractive to business travelers, who make up one in five of EasyJet’s passengers, as they allow free date changes.

Ryanair, which was established in 1985, followed the Southwest Airlines business model just like EasyJet and has grown from a small airline into one of Europe’s largest carriers, operating more than 1,600 daily flights from 72 bases and connecting 192 destinations in 31 countries. In 2015, the Irish-based airline flew over 90 million passengers. It provides cheap point-to-point flying from secondary airports. Ryanair has kept to its single-aircraft policy with a fleet of Boeing 737s (which it bought second-hand and cheaply), reducing maintenance, replacements, and crew training substantially. Following a frugal cost structure, the airline makes money on nearly everything; for example, charging for baggage check-in, printing boarding passes, and paying with a debit or credit card. Like its competitor EasyJet, Ryanair uses in-flight advertising on overhead bins, seatbacks, airsick bags, and on the sides of its jets to generate revenue. As a result, Ryanair currently takes in an average of 20 percent of its revenue from such non-ticket charges, making it the industry leader in charging passengers for virtually every optional amenity they consume.

Ryanair makes no excuses for both the additional charges and the absence of comforts. In fact, it sees its dynamic “less-for-less” value-pricing approach as long overdue in the airline industry. Michael O’Leary, CEO of Ryanair, states that in many ways, travel is pleasant and enriching, but the physical process of getting from Point A to Point B shouldn’t be pleasant or enriching but quick, efficient, affordable, and

The entry of no-frills carriers EasyJet and Ryanair into the European market has totally revolutionized the air passenger transport industry. CPC Collection/Alamy Stock Photo safe.
