# Page 553

**Document Title**: Principles of Marketing 17th Edition
**Author**: Philip Kotler, Gary Armstrong
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Kotler_and_Armstrong_Principles_of_Marketing.pdf
**Page Number**: 553/736
**Processing Time**: 2025-11-23T20:00:41.870176

---

# 18.2 Emirates: Dominance in the sky

Based out of Dubai in the United Arab Emirates, the airline competes with Qatar Airways, Etihad Airways, Gulf Air, Turkish Airlines, British Airways, Singapore Airlines, Cathay Pacific, Lufthansa, and Delta Airlines. Emirates operates over 3,600 flights per week to more than 154 cities in 81 countries across six continents. It draws its competitive advantage from its locational hub in Dubai and has a dedicated modern terminal at the Dubai International Airport. Dubai is located within 4 hours of a third of the world’s population and within 8 hours, flight time of the other two-thirds. Emirates’ international hub in Dubai gives it a big competitive edge. Dubai, which also a popular tourist destination, provides a perfect air link and a short holiday stopover for travelers from North America, Europe, Asia, and Australia, who fly Emirates even though they have no plans to visit the Middle East and for whom Dubai is only a layover.

Over the last five years, Dubai Airport has become one the busiest and largest in the world in terms of passenger traffic and connecting flights. Emirates’ Dubai hub works on a hub-and-spoke model, which is a system of connections arranged like a chariot wheel, where all traffic moves along spokes (destinations) connected to the hub at the center (the Dubai International Airport). It allows efficient use of resources, like using a small number of aircraft and pilots for many destinations. Many of the airline’s complicated operations, like cargo sorting, accounting, and passenger switching, is done at the central Dubai hub instead of at multiple airports.

Emirates has adopted innovative strategies to achieve differentiation and aggressive strategies for expansion, including new routes and more and better planes. The airline maintains a strong focus on the customer experience to ensure satisfaction. Passengers can feel the difference as soon as they enter an Emirates plane. Passengers are greeted by a friendly cabin crew and get a newspaper of their choice as they board, hot towels soon after take-off, a light snack within the first hour of flight, and custom lighting for each seat. Emirates offers free Wi-Fi and allows passengers to send texts and emails via the personal entertainment screens on many of its planes. The airline’s ICE entertainment system is one of the strongest competitive edges that Emirates possesses, offering a vast range of over 2,500 information, communication, and entertainment channels that offer an unmatched experience in the air. The ICE system has won the best In-Flight Entertainment Skytrax award for 11 consecutive years. Emirates Airline has also been ranked among the top five in the world by Skytrax, whose World Airline Awards are an important benchmarking tool in the aviation industry.

Adding to its competitive advantage of superior customer experience, Emirates offers world-class cuisine on its flights that is regionally inspired, with flavorful menu items from the flights’ destinations. The onboard meals are prepared with fresh, locally sourced ingredients. The airline also offers meals prepared just for children. Additionally, Emirates takes special care to provide comfort and convenience for traveling families and makes sure that they board first. At the Dubai International Airport, there are special family check-in desks, and families are provided with complimentary strollers. The airline also has a chauffeur-drive service for its first-class and business-class passengers in over 70 selected cities in Africa, Asia, Australia, New Zealand, Europe, North and South America, and the Middle East.

At both regional and global levels, Emirates has been a game changer in the aviation sector over the last three decades. Another of its competitive strengths is its modern and continuously upgraded fleet. Emirates has one of the youngest fleets in the world, with an average aircraft age of 6.4 years. This is considerably low compared to the global average of more than 13 years. Emirates flies the world’s biggest fleets of Airbus A380s and Boeing 777s, offering its customers the comforts of the latest and most efficient wide-body aircrafts. These younger and newer planes also burn less fuel and have engines that are 30 to 40 percent more efficient than older ones. Emirates has more than 80 iconic double-decker A380s that fly to more than 42 destinations. The airline says that its A380 experience is as close as it gets to flying one’s own private jet. There are private suites and shower spas in first class, flat-bed seats in business class, and extra room and inflight Wi-Fi throughout the aircraft. The A380 on-board lounge is exclusive for its first-class and business-class customers, serving premium spirits, exclusive wines, champagne, cocktails, and beers alongside hot and cold beverages.

Emirates was named the world’s most valuable airline brand in the 2016 Brand Finance Global 500 report and has also retained its well-established position as the most valuable brand in the Middle East. As it reached its 30-year milestone in 2015, Emirates continued to invest in technology to reinforce its core competencies and to modernize its customer experience, like adding

Emirates focuses on differentiation through outstanding service to drive its expansion.  
Iain Masterton/Alamy Stock Photo improvements to its mobile sites and apps to simplify the customer journey.
