# Page 452

**Document Title**: Principles of Marketing 17th Edition
**Author**: Philip Kotler, Gary Armstrong
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Kotler_and_Armstrong_Principles_of_Marketing.pdf
**Page Number**: 452/736
**Processing Time**: 2025-11-23T20:00:41.806938

---

Too often, GEICO became “gecko.” Enter the charismatic green lizard. In 1999, GEICO ran a 15-second spot in which the now-famous, British-accented gecko calls a press conference and pleads: “I am a gecko, not to be confused with GEICO, which could save you hundreds on car insurance. So stop calling me.” The ad was supposed to be a one-time “throwaway,” but consumers quickly flooded the company with calls and letters begging to see more of the gecko. The rest, as they say, is history.

Although the gecko remains GEICO’s iconic spokesman, one lizard could take the company only so far. So over the years, to keep its pitch fresh and entertaining, GEICO has supplemented the gecko ads with a continuous flow of clever, buzzworthy new executions telling the brand’s value story. Early on, when GEICO first went online, the campaign employed a clutch of cultured cavemen, insulted by the company’s advertising slogan “It’s so easy to use GEICO.com, even a caveman could do it.” Later, in response to the question “Can switching to GEICO really save you 15 percent or more on car insurance?,” the “Rhetorical Questions” campaign responded, “Is Ed ‘Too Tall’ Jones too tall?,” “Was Abe Lincoln honest?,” and “Did the little piggy cry ‘wee wee wee’ all the way home?” That last ad introduced the world to Maxwell, the talking pig who went on to star in his own GEICO campaign, emphasizing GEICO’s growing digital, social, and mobile advances. The brand’s later “Happier than…” campaign introduced yet another talking animal, the popular Caleb the Camel, who proclaimed that GEICO customers are “Happier than a camel on hump day.”

In its more recent “It’s what you do…” installment of the campaign, GEICO found yet another way to underline its value proposition in an entertaining and memorable way. In one ad, an immature Peter Pan annoyingly disrupts a staid convention luncheon because when you’re Peter Pan, “you stay young forever. It’s what you do.” Another ad featured a mom who calls her son while he’s in the midst of a dramatic James Bond–style exploit to vent about his dad’s refusal to call exterminators to handle a backyard squirrel problem because if you’re a mom, “you always call at the worst possible time. It’s what you do.” Each ad in the series concluded: “If you want to save money on car insurance, you switch to GEICO. It’s what you do.”

GEICO’s award-winning “Unskippable” campaign offered hilarious online video ads that viewers simply couldn’t skip. Each video featured a seemingly boring, everyday scene, such as a family eating a spaghetti dinner. The ads opened with an unabashedly huge GEICO logo in the middle of the screen and the line, “You can’t skip this ad because it’s already over. Fifteen minutes could save you 15 percent or more on car insurance.” But that’s when the fun kicked in. For example, in the family dinner video, the family freezes while their dog leaps onto the table, methodically and comically scarfing up everyone’s spaghetti (you have to see the video to appreciate it—it’s truly unskippable). The “Unskippable” campaign won the Film Grand Prix award at the Cannes international ad festival and received *Advertising Age*’s first-ever Campaign of the Year award.

“No matter how many GEICO ads you’ve seen over the years—and it’s a bunch—they never seem to grow stale,” observes one expert. The company’s chief marketing officer explains, “We’re trying to stay ever-present in the consumer’s mind but not bore them and have them just tune out yet another GEICO ad.” However, no matter how varied, each mini-campaign has a distinctly GEICO flavor, and every single ad closes strongly with the crucial “15 minutes could save you 15 percent” tagline.

GEICO continues to invest heavily in advertising and content marketing, outspending every other insurance company in measured media by a nearly two-to-one margin. Its annual advertising budget, now more than $1.1 billion, makes GEICO the third-most-advertised U.S. megabrand. However, the brand’s creative and relentless advertising messaging plus its heavy investment have paid big dividends. The once little-known GEICO brand now enjoys well over 90 percent awareness among insurance shoppers. And after years of double-digit market share gains, GEICO now occupies second place in the ultra-competitive U.S. car-insurance market.

Moreover, beyond spurring GEICO’s spectacular growth, the brand’s advertising has changed the way the entire insurance industry markets its products. In what was once a yawn-provoking category, competitors ranging from Allstate (with “Mayhem”) to Progressive (with “Flo”) are now injecting humor and interest in their own advertising campaigns. “This strategy is absolutely working for GEICO,” asserts one analyst. It’s “a testament to how GEICO has used advertising to evolve from a bit player to a behemoth,” says another.¹ ----
