# Page 124

**Document Title**: Principles of Marketing 17th Edition
**Author**: Philip Kotler, Gary Armstrong
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Kotler_and_Armstrong_Principles_of_Marketing.pdf
**Page Number**: 124/736
**Processing Time**: 2025-11-23T20:00:41.650595

---

# Managing Marketing Information to Gain Customer Insights

However, Ferrero has managed to launch their product at $4.55 (per box of 12 chocolates) and make it work even at such a steep price point. So, how did the Italian confectionery giant do it?

The company rolled out Rocher chocolates across India in 2007 and followed this up in 2009 with Tic Tac and Kinder Joy, an egg-shaped chocolate that comes with a toy for children. In October 2011, it opened a factory at Baramati, in the state of Maharashtra. The factory produces one million Kinder Joy eggs and 20 million pellets of Tic Tac daily. Though the company still imports Rocher, it has made India its center for Asia and exports half its local production. Ferrero set up its branch office in Chennai because this region offered contrasting cultures with different needs and wants.

Ferrero is credited with developing the premium segment in India, a price-sensitive market where chocolates are sold at low prices in small packs.  
Ekaterina Minaeva/Alamy Stock Photo

Ferrero sensed as early as 2004 that there was a set of consumers in India willing to pay a premium price for a box of chocolates. To gain and manage the appropriate marketing information and customer insights, Ferrero did not hire any market research firm when it was test-marketing Rocher. Instead, it decided to go to the market on its own to better understand the Indian customer. The company set up a specific customer insights team as a center of excellence in market research. This team provided deep insight into the local market across all relevant aspects, from the launch of new products to changing packaging, developing and modifying recipes, and finding the ideal communication channels. In order to better understand the customer and their potential needs and wants as well as their habits, the Ferrero customer insights team as well as the management traveled into the metro cities as well as out of them, to Nagpur and smaller markets in the interior. They also visited consumer homes to understand consumer habits and aspirations. As a result, Ferrero not only realized that Indians were open to buying an expensive box of chocolates, even if it was sold in a *kirana* store (a small neighborhood retail store in the Indian subcontinent), but they also discovered that consumers would buy expensive chocolates mostly during festivals, when they generally gift sweets.

As a consequence, Ferrero supplies Rocher round the year to modern retail stores such as Food Bazaar, but *kirana* stores get these chocolates typically during the festival season (from October to March). During the summer months, Ferrero distributors do not usually allow *kirana* stores to stock more than three to four boxes so that quality is not compromised because of a lack of refrigeration facilities. The logic is that it is better not to be present at all than give the consumer a stale product. By 2014, despite being available mostly during festivals, Ferrero Rocher had captured 14 percent share in the box chocolate category. In India, where the sheer variety of sweets is vast, where recipes vary from state to state, Ferrero has managed to lodge itself in the minds of the people as a luxury and exclusive product, and people are consuming and gifting these chocolates during local festivals in addition to other occasions when local sweets are consumed. It is worth emphasizing that Ferrero’s growth comes despite a 30 percent import duty on chocolate.

Nestle recently launched its premium brand Alpino at $0.45 a piece for round chocolates that look like Ferrero Rocher. Although both Cadbury and Nestlé sell premium brands, they derive the major share of their revenue from mass-market products. Ferrero’s strategy is different: it does not even plan to make cheaper variants of Tic Tac and Kinder Joy, but successfully pursued a premium strategy instead. Tic Tac is priced at $0.15 while most mouth-freshener candies cost $0.01. Kinder Joy is pitched as a healthy product that contains more milk than cocoa to target mothers conscious of their children’s health.

The success behind Ferrero’s product launches lies in its ability to manage marketing information and gain customer insights. New flavors of products are introduced only after conducting thorough research on Indian requirements and preferences. After further in-depth marketing research, the company successfully introduced an Indian flavor, “Elaichi Mint,” to its Tic Tac brand in late 2014 to suit the local palate. This is the first time that the brand has introduced a local flavor in the market especially to cater to the Indian audience. The new flavored Tic Tac mint has the strong flavor of cardamom and has the tag line “The Desi Mint.” This condiment is widely used in India for its health benefits and as a mouth freshener after meals.

The Indian chocolate market has been growing at a rate of more than 15 percent over the last seven years and is projected to grow at an even higher rate in the future. Ferrero’s objective is to sell Tic Tac and Kinder Joy at 1.1 million retail stores in the next two to three years, up from 38,000 at present. Although Nestlé and Cadbury together account for the majority of the chocolate market, Ferrero is expected to overtake Nestlé in the next few years with the increasing popularity of Ferrero Rocher and Kinder Joy. The company’s ability to capitalize on its management of the marketing information by gaining customer insights and using them to improve decision-making will definitely prove to be a valuable asset in this endeavor.
