# Page 78

**Document Title**: Principles of Marketing 17th Edition
**Author**: Philip Kotler, Gary Armstrong
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Kotler_and_Armstrong_Principles_of_Marketing.pdf
**Page Number**: 78/736
**Processing Time**: 2025-11-23T20:00:41.627751

---

By contrast, DuckDuckGo is specifically designed to be less invasive and less creepy than its competitors. DuckDuckGo doesn’t know who you are. It doesn’t log user IP addresses or use cookies to track users over time or other online locations. Users don’t have accounts. In fact, DuckDuckGo doesn’t even save user search histories. Perhaps most important, when users click on DuckDuckGo’s search results links, the linked websites don’t receive any information generated by the search engine. As one privacy advocate puts it, “DuckDuckGo is a solid search engine that lets you surf the web without leaving behind a bunch of bread crumbs for Uncle Sam or anyone else to follow. . . . The sites you visit are being kept at arm’s length.”

So DuckDuckGo has become the preferred search engine for people concerned about online privacy, and that’s a fast-growing group. “If you look at the logs of people’s search sessions, they’re the most personal thing on the internet,” Weinberg says. “Unlike Facebook, where you choose what to post, with search you’re typing in medical and financial problems and all sorts of other things.” Today, more and more people are thinking about the privacy implications of their search histories. “It was extreme at the time,” says Weinberg of DuckDuckGo’s early privacy positioning. But today, he adds, “It’s become obvious why people don’t want to be tracked.”

How does DuckDuckGo make money? Last year, Google made 90 percent of its $74.5 billion of revenue from search-related advertising, and most of that business involved large-scale, behaviorally targeted advertising that relies on the very tracking tools that DuckDuckGo shuns. However, even without tracking users, smaller DuckDuckGo can be profitable. It simply focuses on the other part of Google’s business—delivering contextual search ads based on the topic of the search itself. So when users search for “curved OLED TVs,” DuckDuckGo shows ads and links for TV manufacturers and retailers who’ve paid for the associated key words.

Thus, in many ways, DuckDuckGo is David to Google’s Goliath. But unlike David, DuckDuckGo isn’t out to slay the giant. It knows that it can’t compete head-on with the Googles and Bings of the world—it doesn’t even try. Then again, given the depth of consumer engagement and loyalty that DuckDuckGo engenders in its own small corner of the online search market, Google and the other giants may find it difficult to compete with DuckDuckGo for privacy-minded users. DuckDuckGo is currently the nation’s 11th-most-popular search engine based on unique monthly visitors. And as privacy grows in importance, so will DuckDuckGo.

That’s what niche marketing is all about—a well-defined brand engaging a focused customer community with meaningful brand relationships that even large and resourceful competitors can’t crack. Smart niching has made DuckDuckGo “Google’s tiniest, fiercest competitor,” says the analyst. “Our vision is simple,” says DuckDuckGo. “To give you great search results without tracking you.”

Sources: “comScore Releases February 2016 U.S. Desktop Search Engine Rankings,” March 16, 2016, www.comscore.com/Insights/Rankings/comScore-Releases-January-2016-US-Desktop-Search-Engine-Rankings; “DuckDuckGo Direct Queries per Day,” https://duckduckgo.com/traffic.html, accessed July 2016; John Paul Titlow, “Inside DuckDuckGo, Google’s Tiniest, Fiercest Competitor,” *Fast Company*, February 20, 2014, www.fastcompany.com/3026698/inside-duckduckgo-googles-tiniest-fiercest-competitor; Susan Adams, “The Founder of DuckDuckGo Explains Why Challenging Google Isn’t Insane,” *Forbes*, February 19, 2016, www.forbes.com/sites/forbestreptalks/2016/02/19/the-founder-of-duckduckgo-explains-how-to-get-customers-before-you-have-a-product-and-why-challenging-google-isnt-insane/#5899487d593c; “Top 15 Most Popular Search Engines—March 2016,” www.ebizmba.com/articles/search-engines, accessed July 2016; and https://duckduckgo.com/about, accessed September 2016.

----

Such deceptively simple statements form the backbone of a product’s marketing strategy. For example, from its founding, Southwest Airlines has positioned itself as “The LUV Airline,” a positioning recently reinforced by the colorful heart in its new logo and plane graphics design. As recent Southwest advertising affirms, “Without a heart, it’s just a machine.” The airline has “always put Heart in everything it does.”

In positioning its brand, a company first identifies possible customer value differences that provide competitive advantages on which to build the position. A company can offer greater customer value by either charging lower prices than competitors or offering more benefits to justify higher prices. But if the company *promises* greater value, it must then *deliver* that greater value. Thus, effective positioning begins with **differentiation**—actually *differentiating* the company’s market offering to create superior customer value. Once the company has chosen a desired position, it must take strong steps to deliver and communicate that position to target consumers. The company’s entire marketing program should support the chosen positioning strategy.

----

### Differentiation  
*Actually differentiating the market offering to create superior customer value.*

----

### Developing an Integrated Marketing Mix

After determining its overall marketing strategy, the company is ready to begin planning the details of the **marketing mix**, one of the major concepts in modern marketing. The marketing mix is the set of tactical marketing tools that the firm blends to produce the response it wants in the target market. The marketing mix consists of everything the firm can do to engage consumers and deliver customer value. The many possibilities can be collected into four groups of variables—the four Ps. **Figure 2.5** shows the marketing tools under each P.

* Product means the goods-and-services combination the company offers to the target market. Thus, a Ford Escape consists of nuts and bolts, spark plugs, pistons,

----

### Marketing mix  
*The set of tactical marketing tools—product, price, place, and promotion—that the firm blends to produce the response it wants in the target market.* headlights, and thousands of other parts.
