# Page 668

**Document Title**: Principles of Marketing 17th Edition
**Author**: Philip Kotler, Gary Armstrong
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Kotler_and_Armstrong_Principles_of_Marketing.pdf
**Page Number**: 668/736
**Processing Time**: 2025-11-23T20:00:41.939665

---

# Glossary

A global marketing approach that adjusts the marketing strategy and mix elements to each international target market, which creates more costs but hopefully produces a larger market share and return.

**Administered VMS**  
A vertical marketing system that coordinates successive stages of production and distribution through the size and power of one of the parties.

**Adoption process**  
The mental process through which an individual passes from first hearing about an innovation to final adoption.

**Advertising**  
Any paid form of nonpersonal presentation and promotion of ideas, goods, or services by an identified sponsor.

**Advertising agency**  
A marketing services firm that assists companies in planning, preparing, implementing, and evaluating all or portions of their advertising programs.

**Advertising budget**  
The dollars and other resources allocated to a product or a company advertising program.

**Advertising media**  
The vehicles through which advertising messages are delivered to their intended audiences.

**Advertising objective**  
A specific communication task to be accomplished with a specific target audience during a specific period of time.

**Advertising strategy**  
The strategy by which the company accomplishes its advertising objectives. It consists of two major elements: creating advertising messages and selecting advertising media.

**Affordable method**  
Setting the promotion budget at the level management thinks the company can afford.

**Agent**  
A wholesaler who represents buyers or sellers on a relatively permanent basis, performs only a few functions, and does not take title to goods.

**Age and life-cycle segmentation**  
Dividing a market into different age and life-cycle groups.

**Allowance**  
Promotional money paid by manufacturers to retailers in return for an agreement to feature the manufacturer’s products in some way.

**Alternative evaluation**  
The stage of the buyer decision process in which the consumer uses information to evaluate alternative brands in the choice set.

**Approach**  
The sales step in which a salesperson meets the customer for the first time.

**Attitude**  
A person’s consistently favorable or unfavorable evaluations, feelings, and tendencies toward an object or idea.

**B-to-B digital and social media marketing**  
Using digital and social media marketing approaches to engage business customers and manage customer relationships anywhere, anytime.

**Baby boomers**  
The 78 million people born during the years following World War II and lasting until 1964.

**Basing-point pricing**  
Pricing in which the seller designates some city as a basing point and charges all customers the freight cost from that city to the customer.

**Behavioral segmentation**  
Dividing a market into segments based on consumer knowledge, attitudes, uses of a product, or responses to a product.

**Behavioral targeting**  
Using online consumer tracking data to target advertisements and marketing offers to specific consumers.

**Belief**  
A descriptive thought that a person holds about something.

**Benchmarking**  
Comparing the company’s products and processes to those of competitors or leading firms in other industries to identify best practices and find ways to improve quality and performance.

**Benefit segmentation**  
Dividing the market into segments according to the different benefits that consumers seek from the product.

**Big data**  
The huge and complex data sets generated by today’s sophisticated information generation, collection, storage, and analysis technologies.

**Blogs**  
Online forums where people and companies post their thoughts and other content, usually related to narrowly defined topics.

**Brand**  
A name, term, sign, symbol, or design, or a combination of these, that identifies the products or services of one seller or group of sellers and differentiates them from those of competitors.

**Brand community website**  
A website that presents brand content that engages consumers and creates customer community around a brand.

**Brand equity**  
The differential effect that knowing the brand name has on customer response to the product or its marketing.

**Brand extension**  
Extending an existing brand name to new product categories.

**Brand value**  
The total financial value of a brand.

**Break-even pricing (target return pricing)**  
Setting price to break even on the costs of making and marketing a product or setting price to make a target return.

**Broker**  
A wholesaler who does not take title to goods and whose function is to bring buyers and sellers together and assist in negotiation.

**Business analysis**  
A review of the sales, costs, and profit projections for a new product to find out whether these factors satisfy the company’s objectives.

**Business buyer behavior**  
The buying behavior of organizations that buy goods and services for use in the production of other products and services that are sold, rented, or supplied to others.

**Business buying process**  
The decision process by which business buyers determine which products and services their organizations need to purchase and then find, evaluate, and choose among alternative suppliers and brands.

**Business portfolio**  
The collection of businesses and products that make up the company.

**Business promotions**  
Sales promotion tools used to generate business leads, stimulate purchases, reward customers, and motivate salespeople.

**Buyer-readiness stages**  
The stages consumers normally pass through on their way to a purchase: awareness, knowledge, liking, preference, conviction, and, finally, the actual purchase.

**Buyers**  
People in an organization’s buying center who make an actual purchase.

**Buying center**  
All the individuals and units that play a role in the purchase decision-making process.

**Buzz marketing**  
Cultivating opinion leaders and getting them to spread information about a product or a service to others in their communities.

**By-product pricing**  
Setting a price for by-products to help offset the costs of disposing of them and help make the main product’s price more competitive.

**Captive-product pricing**  
Setting a price for products that must be used along with a main product, such as blades for a razor and games for a video-game console.

**Catalog marketing**  
Direct marketing through print, video, or digital catalogs that are mailed to select customers, made available in stores, or presented online.

**Category killer**  
A giant specialty store that carries a very deep assortment of a particular line.
