# Page 121

**Document Title**: Principles of Marketing 17th Edition
**Author**: Philip Kotler, Gary Armstrong
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Kotler_and_Armstrong_Principles_of_Marketing.pdf
**Page Number**: 121/736
**Processing Time**: 2025-11-23T20:00:41.648449

---

Getting a start-up company off the ground is challenging. Getting a hardware start-up to succeed is near impossible, especially when you’re the pioneer. But with so many changes in the marketing environment, Park and Friedman knew they had something special. Pedometers had been selling for years, following personal fitness and wellness trends. But those devices were low-tech and limited in the information they provided consumers. And with the seemingly endless demand for high-tech gadgetry, Park and Friedman saw big potential for using sensors in small, wearable devices.

The two entrepreneurs were correct. In just seven years, Fitbit has marketed more than a dozen different products and sold millions of units. Last year alone, the company shipped 21 million devices—almost double the previous year’s number—ringing up $1.86 billion in revenues and $116 million in profits. Fitbit created what is now a fast-growing segment—wearable tech. Amid its best year to date, Fitbit went public with an initial public offering of $4.1 billion. How did the company go from a balsa wood box to sitting atop an exploding industry? To hear Park tell it, “It was the right product at the right time at the right price point.”

## A Magical Device

Although Park’s response may seem simplistic, it’s right on. Coming up with a product that delivers the right benefits to consumers at precisely the time they need them is the key to any new product launch. In Fitbit’s case, consumers were hungry for this small device that could not only track steps taken but calculate distance walked, calories burned, floors climbed, and activity duration and intensity, all from an unobtrusive spot—clipped on a pants pocket. What’s more, the Fitbit Tracker could track sleep quality based on periods of restlessness, the amount of time before falling asleep, and the amount of time actually sleeping.

Even more enticing to consumers, the device could upload data to a computer and make them available on the Fitbit website. At the site, users could overview their physical activity, set and track goals, and keep logs on food eaten and additional activities not tracked by the device. To top things off, the explosion of social media and sharing personal information went hand in hand with what users were uploading. By design, Park and Friedman put more into Fitbit’s software than its own hardware, recognizing that other hardware device companies like Garmin had shortchanged the software aspect.

But Fitbit’s success can also be attributed to new models. Recognizing that gadgets have a limited life span and that competition would attempt to improve on its offerings, Fitbit has made development a constant process. From the original Tracker to its current Blaze smartwatch with GPS, heart-rate monitor, and the ability to display smartphone notifications for calls, texts, calendar alerts, Fitbit has stayed ahead in giving consumers what they want.

## An Unexpected Opportunity

Still, Fitbit’s path to success has been challenging. One big challenge the company has faced from the start is customer retention. Like many diets and pieces of exercise equipment, users are drawn to the “wow” factor of something that can improve their health and wellness but quickly fizzle out. And if users stop using a device, they are far less likely to purchase the “new-and-improved” version, much less recommend it to anyone else. But an interesting thing happened as Fitbit got things rolling. The company received a flood of calls and messages from corporate human resource departments. Perplexed as to why businesses would want to buy Fitbit devices in bulk, the company assigned a point person to find out.

It turned out that corporate America was going through a push to enroll employees in wellness programs. The reasons for this push extended far beyond concerns about employee health and well-being. Healthy employees provide major benefits for a company. They call in sick less often and are generally more productive. They also cost less in terms of health-care benefits. And although diet and exercise can’t erase every poor health condition, they can have a big effect on health factors such as blood pressure, cholesterol levels, and blood sugar levels—conditions related to common diseases such as heart disease, stroke, and diabetes. So it’s no wonder that companies have an incentive to do whatever they can to motivate employees to take better care of themselves.

As Fitbit talked to companies, it discovered that most were struggling to enroll even a small proportion of employees in their workforce wellness programs—many had less than 20 percent compliance. One problem was that—even as the latest fitness wearables from Fitbit and its competitors were showing up around offices everywhere—participation in corporate wellness programs often required the use of a bulky corporate-issued tracker, better known as an analog pedometer. “Can you imagine asking engineers to wear a janky old pedometer and write down their steps?” mused Amy McDonough, Fitbit’s corporate point person. Fitbit, of course, offered a much more high-tech option, letting individuals easily track more complex data and letting HR departments easily compile and analyze the data as well. Fitbit’s bulk sales to corporations started rolling in.

Much to Fitbit’s pleasant surprise, Fitbit products sold through corporations versus those sold to individuals had noticeably higher retention rates. Fitness trackers in corporate wellness programs were often used in wellness challenges—maintain a minimum of 10,000 steps a day and get free vacation days or a discount on health insurance premiums. It might seem logical that people would stop using their devices once a challenge ended. But when IBM gave out 40,000 Fitbits to employees over a two-year period, it found not only that 96 percent of employees routinely logged their health data and eating habits but that 63 percent of employees continued to wear their Fitbits months after the challenge concluded.

Other companies noted even greater tangible benefits. Cloud-services start-up Appirio bought Fitbit devices for 400 employees. Armed with data from the wearables, Appirio was able to convince its health insurance provider, Anthem, that the increased health benefits were translating into lower health-care costs. This gave Appirio the leverage to negotiate lower premiums, shaving $280,000 off its annual bill.

Today, Fitbit’s well division offers tools specifically designed for employers, such as dashboards, dedicated service support, and webinars. Corporate clients include BP America, Kimberly-Clark, Time Warner, and Barclays. Target offered Fitbit Zip trackers to 335,000 of its employees. Corporate sales currently account for 10 percent of Fitbit revenues. But the corporate share of the sales will increase, as adoption in that sector is growing at a faster rate than in consumer markets. Founder Park claims that the use of Fitbits in employee wellness programs is having an impact not only on health and well-being but on job safety as well. Companies have also experienced improvements in office cultures as a result of the unified effort among coworkers.

