# Page 277

**Document Title**: Principles of Marketing 17th Edition
**Author**: Philip Kotler, Gary Armstrong
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Kotler_and_Armstrong_Principles_of_Marketing.pdf
**Page Number**: 277/736
**Processing Time**: 2025-11-23T20:00:41.726035

---

It just brings buyers and sellers together and facilitates transactions between them. But Airbnb’s promise of value is what really sets it apart from the hospitality world’s status quo. The new-to-the-game lodging provider pitches an authentic experience—a true sense of what life is like in the place you visit.

Whereas the hotel industry has spent decades sculpting its standardized offering, in just eight years Airbnb has built a global network of more than 2 million listings and 60 million guests throughout 34,000 cities in 191 countries. It has also built a market value of more than $25 billion. Although these numbers may sound impressive on their own, in its brief existence Airbnb has managed to exceed the accomplishments of the largest hotel chain in the world—100-year-old Hilton Worldwide with its 765,000 rooms, 4,660 properties, and a market value of $22 billion.

How did Airbnb pull of this amazing feat? According to Brian Chesky and Joe Gebbia—the start-up’s founders—Airbnb simply recognized that the travel industry had lost touch with its customers by offering only one cookie-cutter option—ticky-tack rooms in antiseptic hotels and resorts. This standardized model seemed to dictate an unintended goal for the entire hotel industry—to ensure that nothing remotely interesting happens. Once Chesky and Gebbia recognized this, they set out a strategy to bring authenticity back into the hospitality industry.

## Two Million Rooms—No Two Alike

It all started when the founders had a hair-brained thought on how to generate some extra income to help pay the rent on their modest San Francisco loft apartment. During a major convention that had every hotel room in the city booked, they rented out three air mattresses on the floor of their apartment for $40 a night each. In the process, they discovered that the people who booked that real estate got more than just a place to stay at a time when they needed it most—they got a unique networking opportunity. From that moment, Chesky and Gebbia moved quickly to develop and formalize the business concept.

Today, using Airbnb to either list a property or rent one to stay in is relatively simple. For hosts—Airbnb’s official term for property owners who want to rent out space—it’s a simple matter of registering and being vetted to ensure legitimacy. Listings can be pretty much anything from a couch, a single room, a suite of rooms, or an apartment to a moored yacht, a houseboat, an entire house, or even a castle (Airbnb currently claims more than 1,400 castle listings). Some hosts even rent out space in their yards for guests to pitch a tent. With more than 2 million listed properties for rent, each is as unique as its owner. Because listings are in private homes and apartments, they are typically located in residential neighborhoods rather than commerce centers where national and global hotel brands abound. Bookings can be offered by the day, the week, or the month, and hosts decide on price and the other details of their service and listings. Airbnb keeps only 3 percent of the booking fees and returns the rest to the host within 24 hours.

For guests, the process is about like buying or booking most anything online. Registered users search by city, room type, price range, amenities, host language, or various other options, including entering their own keywords. Most listings provide photos and details that give potential guests a reasonably accurate idea of what their stay will be like. Guests can contact potential hosts with questions before booking. On top of the fee for the property, guests typically lay down a security deposit and pay a 6 to 12 percent service fee to Airbnb. Bookings are made through Airbnb, so money changes hands only through a secure interface. When guests arrive at the chosen property, the host either greets them or arranges for entry.

As the founders were getting Airbnb off the ground, they constantly faced a big challenge. Many people—investors included—were skeptical. In fact, during Airbnb’s first year, the founders were turned down by every venture capitalist they approached. “When we started this company, people thought we were crazy,” said Chesky. “They said strangers would never stay with strangers, and horrible things are going to happen.” They also had a hard time convincing guests; few people were willing to risk staying with someone they’d never met.

But Airbnb overcame these concerns through various means. First, it set up a standard rating system for both hosts and guests, allowing each side to assess the other and reviewing what others have said about prior experiences. A “superhost” status gives an assurance of extensive booking experience and high-quality service. A “business travel ready” badge notes that the host provides specific amenities like Wi-Fi, a desk, and basic toiletries. Airbnb also puts guest and host minds at ease with its verification process, tips for safe and satisfactory bookings, and a 24-hour Trust and Safety hotline. Hosts are further protected by an included insurance policy that protects their property from damages of up to $1 million. Airbnb admits that although these measures do not guarantee that nothing bad will ever happen, the likelihood of a negative outcome is no greater than it is for staying at a chain hotel.

## Seeing the World as the Locals Do

From the beginning, Airbnb primarily served budget-minded customers with prices for listings lower than those of comparable hotel rooms. But more and more, Airbnb is seeing a shift toward customers—leisure and business travelers alike—who want more than just low price. This is hardly an accident. Airbnb deliberately positions itself as a provider of unique and authentic experiences through its branding, communications, and other aspects of its business. In doing so, Airbnb has taken the uncertainty of staying in a stranger’s house and turned it into an asset. Whereas hotels can compete on price and convenience, they cannot compete when it comes to the relationship between guest and host. “Guests are looking for experiences where they connect with people and connect with culture,” says Chesky. “You can’t automate hospitality.”

Such was the theme of the second-annual Airbnb Open—a motivational event held in Paris, the company’s biggest market, and attended by 5,000 hosts from 110 different countries. In his keynote address, Chesky explained that the entire hospitality industry caters to tourists in a way that makes them feel like tourists. But with an Airbnb experience, guests start to feel like they are a part of the neighborhood and the city.

As part of his presentation, Chesky summed up the entire Airbnb philosophy by illustrating the experience his own parents had when they arrived in Paris just days before the event. Pictures of their first day in town—hosted by typical tourist guides—were projected on a big screen. There was a picture of them on a double-decker tour bus, another on a generic boat ride, and a third standing in line at the Louvre. Chesky narrated each image with comical cynicism. “Every year, 30 million people go to Paris. They look at everything and they see nothing. We don’t need to go to monuments and landmarks to experience a culture. We can actually stay with people.” Then Chesky showed images from his parents’ second day in Paris—guided by some This ideal—one supported by all Airbnb employees—was the driving force behind a recent and ambitious rebranding effort by the tech start-up.
