# Page 64

**Document Title**: Principles of Marketing 17th Edition
**Author**: Philip Kotler, Gary Armstrong
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Kotler_and_Armstrong_Principles_of_Marketing.pdf
**Page Number**: 64/736
**Processing Time**: 2025-11-23T20:00:41.621441

---

# Company and Marketing Strategy

In this sense, wearers get the feeling of belonging to a special group of achievers.

Distribution-wise, Rolex has a very exclusive network consisting of a limited number of fine jewelry stores in order to make the brand and its products look even more exclusive to customers. A crystal prism indicates that a store is an official Rolex dealer, and the locations selected are all in upscale areas with an established reputation. Its high-end jewelers are spaced geographically and have to carry a certain level of inventory, use certain display patterns, and place specific levels of annual local advertising. Thus, Rolex has high market control with minimal service or channel conflict problems, which enables the company to closely monitor the brand. Rolex strengthens this positioning strategy by limiting production even as demand increases. For luxury goods, scarcity in the marketplace definitely influences value perception, thus increasing demand and contributing to long-term appreciation in the end. Rolex does not have a retail outlet on the internet. Its website has information on the watch lineup and information on dealers in a respective region, but it does not serve as a point of purchase, thus ensuring that it can offer the best possible service and maintain the exclusivity of its brand in terms of its distribution channels.

The pricing strategy that Rolex employs is distinct in its conception and execution. It pursues a premium pricing policy and sets its prices with little regard to the competition, setting instead the price that others follow. Furthermore, the company does not offer any sort of discounts for customers or any sort of price reductions or sales because consumers are willing to pay the high prices set by the company. This has been evidenced by the fact that even during an economic downturn and faced with discounted watches from other brands, the majority of luxury watch shoppers is still looking for a Rolex.

When it comes to promotion, Rolex uses a number of marketing communication tools to effectively convey its positioning strategy, like print advertising in upmarket publications such as the *Financial Times* and *Vogue*. Sponsorship and testimonials remain central to its marketing communications, for the company chooses people who have achieved something and can reinforce the values of the brand. The sports that the company endorses are those generally considered upscale, such as golf, equestrianism, yachting, and tennis. By tradition, the brand has been a partner of the famous Wimbledon tennis tournament since 1978, with the Rolex clock prominently placed at the scoreboard on Centre Court. All promotional tools convey a consistent positioning and message—Rolex purchasers are wealthy, attractive, and active, and lead interesting lives. The image it seeks to put across is that customers purchase Rolex as a statement and as a reward for success.

In the future, Rolex will face increasingly fierce competition, particularly in Asia, as competitors search for new ways to gain market share. The large luxury goods conglomerates such as Louis Vuitton Moët Hennessy and Compagnie Financière Richemont enjoy advantages of size and significantly reduced costs from synergies in advertising and marketing. Furthermore, these enterprises are also targeting younger customers to generate further market potential. However, Rolex has successfully managed to build and enhance its brand equity and has effectively generated a distinct perception of the company and its products that is rooted in values such as accuracy, exclusivity, and robustness. This was accomplished by the company’s carefully orchestrated customer-driven marketing mix in concert with constant innovation. The company has also successfully reacted to their rival’s strategy to target a younger audience by sponsoring more current testimonials in sports, such as young golf pros Ricky Fowler and Martin Kaymer.

With similar goals in mind, Rolex has created a fan page on Facebook in 2013 that has earned over 5.6 million likes to date, outperforming rivals like Breitling or Cartier. In 2013, Rolex amplified its 30-year sponsorship of Wimbledon with a raft of digital content based around the world’s most famous tennis competition. The company used a “scorecard” Facebook app, Twitter hashtags, and video content to deeply embed its brand into the event experience and start an online dialogue with consumers. In 2012, the brand started its YouTube channel to launch in-house documentaries about topics that matter to the brand and its devotees, like deep-sea missions to investigate the polar ice caps and Himalayan expeditions. As to the cost advantage of some of their rivals, Rolex successfully adapted its marketing mix strategy by launching its Tudor brand. Priced significantly lower than the classic Rolex wristwatches, the launch of Tudor has enabled the company to compete with Tag Heuer and other competitors within the accessible luxury market and also to target a younger audience. In this respect, the company ensures a clear distinction between both brands (for example, by not having any reference to the Tudor brand on the official Rolex website) to prevent any dilution of the value of the Rolex brand in the luxury watch market.

In all, its effective and flexible marketing mix strategy, in line with its ability to react to a dynamic environment, has enabled Rolex to not only build brand equity but also successfully repel threats from competitors and stand resilient as one of the world’s most powerful and enduring brands.

----

Rolex’s endorsements reinforce the values of the brand—achievement and exclusivity. lee hacker/Alamy Stock Photo Explain company-wide strategic planning and its four steps.<br>
