# Page 186

**Document Title**: Principles of Marketing 17th Edition
**Author**: Philip Kotler, Gary Armstrong
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Kotler_and_Armstrong_Principles_of_Marketing.pdf
**Page Number**: 186/736
**Processing Time**: 2025-11-23T20:00:41.678217

---

There’s Ruby Rails, a popular African American girl who is a whiz at coding; Valentina Voltz, a Hispanic engineer; and Li Gravity, Goldie’s long-time neighbor and best friend who is an expert at physics who knows how to apply the laws of his favorite science, performing stunts with superhero-like precision. Together, these characters take girls on a variety of adventures that go way beyond princess escapades—such as skydiving, ziplining, and auto racing. Then there’s the “Invention Mansion,” the play set Sterling refers to as the “anti-dollhouse”—a 300-piece play set featuring a “Hacker Hideway” that can be figured and reconfigured into hundreds of different formats.

Whether or not the two sides to the debate will resolve their differences in trying to achieve the same goal, there is no question that GoldieBlox has taken the toy industry by storm. If the most recent annual North American International Toy Fair is any indication, a little GoldieBlox seems to have rubbed off on just about every other toy company. The first year that GoldieBlox set up its booth at the trade show, the tech toy section was a wasteland. Today, nearly every booth features STEM toys, robots, and a lot of not-so-pink products targeted at girls.

Although clearly motivated to put an end to the stereotypes that have long been generated by the toy and entertainment industries, Sterling makes it clear that the goal is to become a multiplatform character brand à la Disney. “We want to be the brand that kids are whining for.” If the next few years are anything like GoldieBlox’s first few, it’s easy to envision a new kind of toy aisle at the local supercenter—one that heavily features GoldieBlox’s multiplatform brand.

## Questions for Discussion

**5-18**  
Of the factors that influence consumer behavior, which category or categories (cultural, social, personal, or psychological) best explain the existence of a blue toy aisle and a pink toy aisle? Why?

**5-19**  
Choose the specific factor (for example, culture, family, occupation, attitudes) that most accounts for the blue/pink toy aisle phenomenon. Explain the challenges faced by GoldieBlox in attempting to market toys that “swim against the stream” or push back against the forces of that factor.

**5-20**  
To what degree is GoldieBlox bucking the blue/pink toy aisle system?

**5-21**  
If GoldieBlox succeeds at selling lots of its toys, will that accomplish the mission of increasing the presence of females in the field of engineering?

### Sources:  
John Kell, “How Toy Startup GoldieBlox Made Diversity a Priority,” *Fortune*, April 1, 2016, www.fortune.com/2016/04/01/goldieblox-toy-startup-diversity/;  
“Hottest Toys of 2016: On the Ground with GoldieBlox at the Toy Fair,” *GeekGirlRising*, www.geekgirlrising.com/hottest-toys-of-2016-focus-on-steam-ggr-and-goldieblox-on-the-ground-at-ny-toy-fair/, accessed June, 2016;  
Katy Waldman, “GoldieBlox: Great for Girls? Terrible for Girls? Or Just Selling Toys?” *Slate*, November 26, 2013, www.slate.com/blogs/xx_factor/2013/11/26/goldieblox_disrupting_the_pink_aisle_or_just_selling_toys.html;  
Jennifer Reingold, “Watch Out Disney: This Toy Startup’s Coming for You,” *Fortune*, November 26, 2014, http://fortune.com/2014/11/26/goldie-blox-toy-startup/; and information from www.goldieblox.com, accessed June 2016.

----

### MyLab Marketing  
Go to **mymktlab.com** for the following Assisted-graded writing questions:

**5-22**  
Explain the stages of the consumer buyer decision process and describe how you or your family went through this process to make a recent purchase.

**5-23**  
Discuss how lifestyle influences consumers’ buying behavior and how marketers measure lifestyle.

