# Page 368

**Document Title**: Principles of Marketing 17th Edition
**Author**: Philip Kotler, Gary Armstrong
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Kotler_and_Armstrong_Principles_of_Marketing.pdf
**Page Number**: 368/736
**Processing Time**: 2025-11-23T20:00:41.761881

---

# 12.1 Zara: Though Disintermediation to the Top of World Fashion

So while some competitors outsource all production to developing countries, particularly in Asia, Zara makes its most fashionable items—half of all its merchandise—at a dozen company-owned factories in Spain and Portugal. Zara, which was founded in 1975 and is the flagship brand of the Inditex group, has over 2,000 stores strategically located in leading cities, such as New York, Paris, Tokyo, and Buenos Aires, and operates in 88 countries in Europe, South America, Oceania, and Africa. In the fiscal year 2015, Inditex had sales of $21.9 billion, which is a 15 percent increase, far stronger than its competitors, making Zara the world’s largest apparel retailer—not despite but because of its production and manufacturing strategy.

The secret of its success stems from Zara’s vertically integrated marketing system (VMS), which combines successive stages of production and distribution under single ownership. Controlling the entire distribution chain from design and production to its own worldwide distribution network has turned Zara into the world’s fastest growing retailer. Zara resisted the temptation of locating its production in Asian countries like China, where labor cost is low. By going against the trend, Zara was able to hold control over its supply chain. As a vertically integrated retailer, Zara pursues a disintermediation strategy, which as the name suggests involves the removal of intermediaries in a supply chain. Instead of going through traditional distribution channels (which has distributors, wholesalers, brokers, or agents), Zara deals with every customer directly. The company designs, produces, and distributes the products by itself.

Disintermediation means that Zara has to monitor all its processes clearly in order to be efficient and fast. Effective disintermediation and vertical integration makes Zara faster, more flexible, and more efficient than international competitors such as Gap and H&M. Zara can make a new line from start to finish in less than 15 days and a look seen on MTV can be in Zara stores within a month, versus an industry average of 6 months. This is a staggering pace, helped by the fact that between 51 to 55 percent of its clothing is manufactured in what the company describes as “proximity” markets—Spain, Portugal, Turkey and Morocco—instead of Asia. Zara’s key competitive advantage lies in its ability to match fashion trends that change quickly. It is no wonder that versions of latest designs by fashion designers in Paris, London, New York, or Tokyo are in Zara stores within a very short time of appearing on the runway. One of the most fascinating things about Zara is that it became popular not in spite of but because of its lack of originality, as shoppers around the world are thrilled to buy Zara’s catwalk copycat designs at affordable prices.

Zara stores are located in city center streets, are owned by the company, and thereby have total control of its image and sales data. Zara uses its stores to find out what consumers want, what styles are selling best, what colors are in demand, and which items are hot sellers. The data are fed back to Zara headquarters in Spain through a sophisticated marketing information system. At the end of each day, Zara sales assistants report inventory levels to the respective store manager, who immediately informs Zara’s central design and distribution departments about what consumers are buying, asking for, and avoiding, all of which have to be recorded accordingly. Top-selling items are requested by the store managers and reach the store within one to two days. At the same time, the commercial team liaises with the designers and sales trends are identified, either from evidence in stores or the catwalk, to develop new products to follow them. New fashions are produced in relatively small batches so failures can be disregarded after their first appearance and hits can be followed quickly. By producing smaller batches of clothing, Zara adds an air of exclusivity that encourages customers to shop more often. As garments are made in small production runs and no item stays in the shops for more than four weeks, Zara shoppers are encouraged to make repeat visits. Whereas the average high-street store in Spain expects shoppers to visit three times a year on average, Zara shoppers visit up to 17 times.

As fresh inventory is key to Zara’s sales strategy, its stores are stocked with new designs twice a week faster than most of its competitors. The result of this structure is that the product range in Zara stores evolves quickly. Rather than relying on one product range per season, Zara promotes four or five waves of new products after the initial seasonal launch. In the stores, around 60 percent of Zara’s products are lasting and the remaining 40 percent vary continually. Thus, the retailer can offer considerably more products than its rivals. It launches about 30,000 model items annually compared with 10,000.

Zara’s key competitive advantage lies in its ability to match fashion trends that change quickly. Mira/Alamy Stock Photo Items for its main competitors.
