# Page 348

**Document Title**: Principles of Marketing 17th Edition
**Author**: Philip Kotler, Gary Armstrong
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Kotler_and_Armstrong_Principles_of_Marketing.pdf
**Page Number**: 348/736
**Processing Time**: 2025-11-23T20:00:41.754182

---

# 11.2 Pharmaceutical Prices in Europe: Challenges and Policy Initiatives

At a meeting held in June 2016 in Luxemburg, under the presidency of the Netherlands, EU member state health ministers approved a plan to analyze medicine competition in Europe with reference to drug prices and intellectual property rights. This plan emphasizes the functioning of the pharmaceutical industry’s R&D and pricing strategies in the European Union. Member states are working hard to achieve a vital balance between key factors such as interactions between marketing authorization and measures to promote innovation; the pharmaceutical market; and national approaches to pricing, reimbursement, and assessment of medicinal products.

Research has shown that the pharmaceutical industry is still considered the least-trusted industry by the general public. The major European pharmaceutical companies promote themselves as centers for medicine research and development, but many believe that they spend more money on marketing than on drug inventions. When there are improvements in the medicines, they come at a very substantial financial cost for the patients: the average prices of new prescription medicines and therapies have doubled over the last 5 to 10 years.

An important bone of contention for critics of the pharmaceutical industry is the aggressive pricing strategies pursued by most large companies. Some stakeholders have started to question the ever-increasing cost of new conventional drugs and the rise in prices for many currently available drugs. A study at the University of Liverpool discovered that, in 2017, 28 formulations of 21 medicines showed price increases in the United Kingdom from 2011 to 2016, some of which were staggering: Treosulfan, Busulfan, and Tamoxifen showed an increase of 1201 percent, 1107 percent, and 972 percent, respectively.

It has also been alleged that they prefer chronic diseases compared to less profitable infectious ones for developing new medicines; this makes fiscal sense as most drugs typically take more than 10 years from the initial concept until it reaches the consumer. According to cost estimates by the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry, it could well be £1.15 billion per drug. High invention cost of medicines is perceived to be one of the main reasons for high medicine prices. Yet pharmaceutical companies continue to position themselves as entities contributing to the well-being and quality of life of people. Most drug invention attempts fail and result in losses for these companies; approximately 10 percent of drug inventions actually reach the approval phase. Clearly there is a need for a joint initiative and efforts by the key stakeholders, including the pharmaceutical industry and the governments, to strike the right balance between reaching the lowest pricing today and ensuring adequate investment for meeting the challenging medical needs of tomorrow.

To manage medicine pricing, the European Commission and the European pharmaceutical industry work within a comprehensive regulatory framework. They have introduced measures and mechanisms for price regulations (to control drug prices and profits), international price comparisons, and reference pricing and health technology assessments. According to some reports, the European pharmaceutical industry is planning to implement a fundamental change in drug pricing policies in Europe so that companies are rewarded for the clinical benefit of treatments rather than for the number of pills sold. The high price of drugs is straining Europe’s cash-strapped health systems and depriving many patients of the latest products. Manufacturers argue that they can save costs in the long run by keeping people out of hospital, but it is unclear how the clinical benefits of treatments can be measured; it may take years of treatment to gain some sort of perspective on this. European health care systems are largely state-funded, and governments expect the prices they pay to be fair and reflect value for money.

At the beginning of 2016, the European Commission issued a report on drug pricing in Europe. This document reports on the investigation of two pricing policies: external price referencing (EPR) and differential pricing (DP). EPR is a tool for drug price control and is widely used in the European Union; however, DP is highlighted as an effective strategy to improve access to otherwise unaffordable medicines for some member states. Both pricing policies differ with regard to aims and objectives, their current implementation in the European Union, and their potential for achieving the policy initiatives. The European Commission defines EPR as the practice of comparing medicine prices in several countries in order to set a benchmark or reference price for the purposes of setting or negotiating the price of a medicine in a given country. This policy is also comparable or similar to external reference pricing or international price comparison/benchmarking. EPR is used in most of the EU member states, though different approaches are applied in some EU countries. For example, Germany, Sweden, and the United Kingdom make use of some other forms of EPR pricing, such as value-based pricing. The commission also found some limitations of EPR; for example, price comparisons are usually not done based on the real drug prices paid by consumers (i.e., discounted prices). According to the report, the practice of lowering list prices through various types of discounts, rebates, and similar financial arrangements between governments and marketing authorization holders is widespread. Twenty-two EU member states reported that such financial arrangements are made either based on a national law or confidentiality based agreements.

On the other hand, pharmaceutical companies benefit from DP by setting different prices for different customers for the same products, even though the cost of production is the same. The customer’s unique position (e.g., patients from poor countries)

Pharmaceutical companies often argue that the value of their research justifies the high costs of the medicines they sell.  
anyaivanova/123rf.com sometimes permits the use of DP to good effect for these companies.
