# Page 534

**Document Title**: Principles of Marketing 17th Edition
**Author**: Philip Kotler, Gary Armstrong
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/Kotler_and_Armstrong_Principles_of_Marketing.pdf
**Page Number**: 534/736
**Processing Time**: 2025-11-23T20:00:41.858078

---

Using sophisticated big data analytics, direct marketers can mine these databases to “microtarget” their selling efforts. Most marketers have become highly skilled at collecting and analyzing detailed consumer information both online and offline. Even the experts are sometimes surprised by how much marketers can learn. Consider this account by one *Advertising Age* reporter:51

> I’m no neophyte when it comes to targeting—not only do I work at *Ad Age*, but I cover direct marketing. Yet even I was taken aback when, as an experiment, we asked the database-marketing company to come up with a demographic and psychographic profile of me. Was it ever spot-on. Using only publicly available information, it concluded my date of birth, home phone number, and political-party affiliation. It gleamed that I was a college graduate, that I was married, and that one of my parents had passed away. It found that I have several bank, credit, and retail cards at “low-end” department stores. It knew not just how long I’ve lived at my house but how much it cost, how much it was worth, the type of mortgage that’s on it, and—within a really close ballpark guess—how much is left to pay on it. It estimated my household income—again nearly perfectly—and determined that I am of British descent.  
> But that was just the beginning. The company also nailed my psychographic profile. It correctly placed me into various groupings such as: someone who relies more on their own opinions than the recommendations of others when making a purchase; someone who is turned off by loud and aggressive advertising; someone who is family-oriented and has an interest in music, running, sports, computers, and is an avid concert-goer; someone who is never far from an internet connection, generally used to peruse sports and general news updates; and someone who sees health as a core value. Scary? Certainly.

Some consumers and policy makers worry that the ready availability of information may leave consumers open to abuse. For example, they ask, should credit card companies be allowed to make data on their millions of cardholders worldwide available to merchants who accept their cards? Is it right for states to sell the names and addresses of driver’s license holders, along with height, weight, and gender information, allowing apparel retailers to target tall or overweight people with special clothing offers? Or is it right for telecommunications companies to make mobile phone usage data available to data analytics firms that then sell customer insights to marketers? For example, SAP’s Consumer Insight 365 unit gleans and sells customer insights from up to 300 mobile call, web surfing, and text messaging events per day for each of 20 million to 25 million mobile subscribers from data supplied by mobile operators.52

## A Need for Action

To curb direct marketing excesses, various government agencies are investigating not only do-not-call lists but also do-not-mail lists, do-not-track-online lists, and Can Spam legislation. In response to online privacy and security concerns, the federal government has considered numerous legislative actions to regulate how online, social media, and mobile operators obtain and use consumer information. For example, Congress is drafting legislation that would give consumers more control over how online information is used. In addition, the FTC is taking a more active role in policing online privacy.

All of these concerns call for strong actions by marketers to monitor and prevent privacy abuses before legislators step in to do it for them. For example, to head off increased government regulation, six advertiser groups—the American Association of Advertising Agencies, the American Advertising Federation, the Association of National Advertisers, the Direct Marketing Association, the Interactive Advertising Bureau, and the Network Advertising Initiative—issued a set of online advertising principles through the Digital Advertising Alliance. Among other measures, the self-regulatory principles call for online and mobile marketers to provide transparency and choice to consumers if online viewing data are collected or used for targeting interest-based advertising. The ad industry uses an **advertising option icon**—a little “i” inside a triangle—that it adds to behaviorally targeted online ads to tell consumers why they are seeing a particular ad and allowing them to opt out.53

Consumer privacy: The ad industry has agreed on an advertising option icon that will tell consumers why they are seeing a particular ad and allow them to opt out. Digital Advertising Alliance

Of special concern are the privacy rights of children. In 2000, Congress passed the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), which requires online operators targeting children to post privacy policies on their sites. They must also notify parents about any information they’re gathering and obtain parental consent before collecting personal information from children under age 13. With the subsequent advent of online social media, mobile phones, and other digital technologies, Congress in 2013 extended COPPA to include “identifiers such as cookies that track a child’s activity online, as well as geolocation information, photos, videos, and audio recordings.” The main concern is the amount of data mined by third parties from social media as well as social media’s own hazy privacy policies.54
