# Page 152

**Document Title**: How Brands Grow: What Marketers Don't Know
**Author**: Byron Sharp
**Original File**: data/raw_documents/How_Brands_Grow_What_Marketers_Dont_Know.pdf
**Page Number**: 152/208
**Processing Time**: 2026-02-06T17:18:18.726954

---

A number of studies have found reference price effects (e.g. Hardie, Johnson & Fader, 1993; Lattin & Bucklin 1989) in grocery markets. However, another stream of research on price knowledge has found that many consumers struggle to recall the prices they paid for goods (Vanhuele & Dreze 2002). How can there be a reference price effect if consumers have a low level of price recall and buying brands on special is routine? Let’s tackle this paradox by reviewing the reference price research and the studies on price recall, and then reconcile the results from both research streams.

# Reference price

The academic research on pricing emphasises the notion of a consumer reference price – especially the consumer’s internal reference price, which is a memory or expectation of what prices should be (note: the concept of an external reference price refers to information on the prices of alternatives). This expectation of price is thought to be generated by exposure to prices in the past, either by purchasing or observing communications such as ads. The idea of a reference price is that ‘past prices matter’ and if consumers encounter a price above their reference price, this dampens their propensity to buy.

# Price knowledge

We have to reconcile the notion of a reference price effect with consumers’ less-than-perfect knowledge about prices and the routine nature of shopping described above. Many studies of consumers’ ability to recall prices have shown their recall to be poor. In the US, a large-scale study (Dickson & Sawyer 1990) was conducted in which shoppers were intercepted shortly after selecting a product; of these shoppers, only about half knew the price of the item they selected to within 5%. In France, the figure was about a third of shoppers (Vanhuele & Dreze 2002). It seems that either the memory trace for the price of the item was very momentary, or that little attention was paid to the price of the item in the first place. In the Dickson and Sawyer study, many shoppers claimed they did not check the price of the item or check the prices of alternatives.

The initial findings about consumers’ price knowledge, such as the Dickson and Sawyer (1990) study, were based on price recall. More recently, researchers have argued that two other measures are more appropriate:
